Wine, whose star power has rattled the ruling party, is the frontrunner among 10 candidates challenging President Yoweri Museveni, a former guerrilla leader who seized power in 1986.Scores of opposition protesters have been killed during a campaign scarred by crackdowns on Wine's rallies which the authorities say contravene curbs on gatherings to stop the spread of Covid-19. Wine has been arrested multiple times while campaigning.
While Museveni, 76, has long been seen as a stabilising force in Uganda after the brutal reigns of two military dictators, opponents say his government has become riddled with corruption and nepotism.
Wine also said in a separate post on Twitter that soldiers raided the home of one of his aides overnight and took the man to an unknown destination.
One of my personal assistants 's home was raided in the night, broken into and he was violently arrested by the army and driven to an unknown destination.
I know they'll do more of such and worse
but we shall not give up.
Museveni announced on Twitter that he would address the nation at 7 pm local time (1600 GMT) on Tuesday.
Chad Wolf steps down as acting Homeland Security secretary
US Acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf has announced his resignation unexpectedly as worries rose over more violence during President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration next week.
Wolf's departure as head of the body in charge of security for the January 20 event came five days after President Donald Trump's supporters stormed the US Capitol, hoping to prevent Biden from replacing him.
The Homeland Security Department oversees several law enforcement bodies, including the Secret Service, the point agency for security for the White House and the US president.
Wolf, who said he was stepping down for procedural reasons, named Pete Gaynor, the administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, to replace him.
But the move did not end questions over whether the US capital city would be adequately secure over the coming week.
An internal FBI document warned of the possibility that armed Trump supporters could hold protests in all 50 states between the coming weekend and January 20, according to US media.
The White House issued a statement saying that Trump had declared that an emergency exists in the District of Columbia and ordered Federal assistance to supplement the District's response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from the 59th Presidential Inauguration from January 11 to January 24, 2021.It said the order gave the Department of Homeland Security the authority to act to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, and to lessen or avert the threat of a catastrophe in the District of Columbia.
Meanwhile, federal and city officials continued to point fingers over who was responsible for the debacle at the Capitol last Wednesday, when the Congressional police force was overwhelmed by thousands of Trump supporters who succeeded in shutting down the legislature.
The Pentagon said on Monday that it had authorised 15,000 National Guard troops to be deployed for Biden's inauguration.
Already 6,200 troops are on the ground in Washington, and a total of 10,000 are planned by the coming weekend, said General Daniel Hokanson, chief of the Defense Department's National Guard Bureau.
Another 5,000 could be deployed by the day of the inauguration, he said.
They will come equipped with riot gear and weapons, but so far they have not been authorised to arm themselves while on the streets of the US capital, he said.
Before he announced his departure, Wolf also ordered an acceleration of preparations by the Secret Service, citing events of the past week and the evolving security landscape.
Preparations for the event were moving quickly.
A security fence has been built around the entire grounds of the Capitol, where Biden will take the oath of office as Trump's successor.
Still angry about last Wednesday's violence, in which five people died, including a protester shot dead by police and a police officer who was attacked and died from his injuries, Washington mayor Muriel Bowser appealed to Biden backers to stay away from the capital on inauguration day.
Normally, hundreds of thousands of Americans – sometimes more than a million – flock to Washington for the quadrennial event.
We are asking Americans not to come to Washington DC for the 59th presidential inauguration on January 20 and to instead participate virtually, Bowser said.
Organisers said the Democratic president- elect would use the occasion to foster national unity, faced by a country deeply divided over politics and hobbled by the coronavirus pandemic.
He will be sworn in at the Capitol in front of the National Mall filled with flags rather than the usual hundreds of thousands of spectators.
Afterwards, he and three former US presidents – Trump won't attend – will travel to Arlington National Cemetery, where thousands of US military war dead for veterans are buried, to lay a wreath.
But the preparations come as Democrats, accusing Trump of fomenting and applauding what they branded an insurrection and coup attempt last week, seek to force Trump from office prematurely.
That could further spark violence by Trump supporters, the FBI warned in a new internal advisory.
According to US media, the document says that far-right groups like the violent Boogaloo Boys are planning protests around the country timed to the inauguration.
One group, the FBI said, warned that if Congress attempts to remove POTUS (Trump) via the 25th Amendment a huge uprising will occur, ABC News reported.
India's Supreme Court stays implementation of new farm laws
India's Supreme Court ordered an indefinite stay on Tuesday over the implementation of new agricultural laws that have triggered widespread protest from farmers, saying it would set up a panel to hear their objections.
For more than a month, tens of thousands of farmers have camped on the outskirts of New Delhi, the capital, to protest against reform measures that they say benefit large private buyers and harm growers.
Chief Justice Sharad Bobde told a hearing the Supreme Court would establish a panel to hear the farmers' grievances.
We have the power to make a committee and the committee can give us the report, he said, ordering the stay for an undisclosed period on the laws passed in September.
We will protect farmers.
There were no immediate further details.
At the same time, images shared by Reuters news agency show Indian police officers were detaining activists from the main opposition party in the capital New Delhi on Tuesday.
India says the laws aim to modernise an antiquated farming system, bedevilled by wastage and bottlenecks in the supply chain.
But farm leaders demand repeal of the laws, which they say are an attempt to erode a longstanding mechanism that ensures farmers a minimum support price for their crops.
The government has said there was no question of such a rollback, and eight rounds of talks have failed to find common ground.
The two sides are set to meet next on Friday.
Face masks pose new threat to wildlife
Masks that helped save lives during the coronavirus pandemic are proving a deadly hazard for wildlife, with birds and marine creatures ensnared in the staggering number of discarded facial coverings littering animal habitats.
Single-use surgical masks have been found scattered around pavements, waterways and beaches worldwide since countries began mandating their use in public places to slow the pandemic's spread.
Worn once, the thin protective materials can take hundreds of years to decompose.
Face masks aren't going away any time soon –
but when we throw them away, these items can harm the environment and the animals who share our planet, Ashley Fruno of animal rights group
PETA said.
Macaques have been spotted chewing the straps off old and tossed-aside masks in the hills outside Malaysia's capital Kuala Lumpur – a potential choking hazard for the diminutive monkeys.
And in an incident that captured headlines in Britain, a gull was rescued by the RSPCA in the city of Chelmsford after its legs became tangled in the straps of a disposable mask for up to a week.
The animal welfare charity was alerted after the bird was spotted, motionless but still alive, and they took it to a wildlife hospital for treatment before its release.
It's clear the mask was there for some time and the elastic straps had tightened around his legs as his joints were swollen and sore, said RSPCA inspector Adam Jones.
Another kind reminder to cut the straps of your masks before disposing of them so that wildlife doesn't get tangled in them.
This can also go for plastic bags, six pack rings, and plastic gloves.
The biggest impact may be in the water, with green groups alarmed at the flood of used masks, latex gloves and other protective gear finding their way into already contaminated seas and rivers.
More than 1.5 billion masks made their way into the world's oceans last year, accounting for around 6,200 extra tonnes of marine plastic pollution, according to environmental group OceansAsia.
Already there are signs that masks are worsening threats to marine life.
Conservationists in Brazil found one inside the stomach of a penguin after its body washed up on a beach, while a dead pufferfish was discovered caught inside another off the coast of Miami.
French campaigners Operation Mer Propre found a dead crab ensnared in a mask in a saltwater lagoon near the Mediterranean in September.
Masks and gloves are particularly problematic for sea creatures, says George Leonard, chief scientist from US-based NGO Ocean Conservancy.
When those plastics break down in the environment, they form smaller and smaller particles, he told AFP.Those
particles then enter the food chain and impact entire ecosystems, he added.
There has been a shift towards greater use of reusable cloth masks as the pandemic has worn on, but many are still opting for the lighter single-use varieties.
Campaigners have urged people to bin them properly and snip the straps to reduce the risk of animals becoming ensnared.
OceansAsia has also called on governments to increase fines for littering and encourage the use of washable masks.
Malaysia imposes state of emergency for first time in over 50 years
Malaysia's king has declared a nationwide state of emergency to fight a coronavirus surge that is overwhelming hospitals, but critics charged it was a bid by an unstable government to cling to power.
The announcement came a day after the prime minister introduced sweeping new curbs across much of the Southeast Asian nation, including the closure of most businesses, and warned the health system was at breaking point.
Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah agreed to declare an emergency until August 1 following a request from Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin in a Monday meeting, the national palace said in a statement.
In a televised address, Muhyiddin said parliament would be suspended and elections would not take place, with the king able to enact new laws if necessary.
But the leader, whose 10-month-old government faces a host of challenges, insisted that the civilian government will continue to function.
The emergency declaration... is not a military coup and a curfew will not be enforced, he said.
He insisted he was committed to holding a general election once the country's outbreak is brought under control.
The announcement came after Muhyiddin's key coalition allies threatened to withdraw support, which could have led to the collapse of the government and snap national polls that some feared could worsen the outbreak.
Malaysia last declared an emergency in 1969 after bloody racial riots that killed hundreds.
Malaysia kept the virus in check for much of last year with a tough lockdown but, once curbs were eased, cases accelerated and have repeatedly hit fresh records in recent days.
As well as suspending political life, the declaration gives the government powers to take over private hospitals as government facilities become overwhelmed, and get extra help from the military and police, Muhyiddin said.
The emergency could be lifted earlier if the rate of infection slows.
The country has reported more than 138,000 virus cases and 555 deaths.
Under the renewed curbs from Wednesday, social gatherings and interstate travel are banned and movement is limited within a 10-kilometre (6-mile) radius, similar to a national lockdown in March 2020.However, certain sectors in manufacturing, construction, services, trade and distribution, and plantations will be allowed to operate with strict guidelines.
An election in the state of Sabah last year has been blamed for triggering a new wave of infections that spread nationwide.
But critics expressed worries that the declaration was a gambit to cling to power by Muhyiddin that could erode civil liberties.
The declaration of a state of emergency seems like another attempt by Muhyiddin to hold on to power, block elections and to remove parliamentary oversight, rather than to seriously address the pandemic, tweeted Josef Benedict from Civicus, a global alliance of civil society organisations and activists.
: The declaration of a state of emergency seems like another attempt by Muhyiddin to hold on to power, block elections and to remove parliamentary oversight, rather than to seriously address the pandemic.
A dark day for democracy.
Oh Ei Sun, a senior fellow at the Singapore Institute of International Affairs, said most people could understand the need for movement curbs but an emergency declaration appeared overblown as it is unclear how that could help slow the virus spread.
“It's very clearly a political move from the Muhyiddin side to preempt political challenges from both his rivals in his ruling coalition as well as the opposition, he said.
Marina Mahathir, an activist and the daughter of former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad, tweeted that an emergency declaration was a declaration of failure.
A declaration of emergency is a declaration of failure really.
Failure to manage the pandemic, failure to govern, failure to care about the people.
Muhyiddin first tried to persuade the king to declare an emergency in October but was rebuffed.
The last time an emergency was declared nationally was in 1969, in response to deadly racial riots.
Malaysia has been in political turmoil since March last year when Muhyiddin came to power without an election following Mahathir's resignation and the collapse of his reformist administration.
US tariffs on French, German products take effect over aircraft spat
The US government has begun collecting new duties on aircraft parts and other products from France and Germany after failing to resolve a 16-year dispute over aircraft subsidies with the European Union.
to shippers late on Monday, US Customs and Border Protection said the new duties would apply from 12:01 a.m.
ET
(0501 GMT) on Tuesday as part of the long-running battle over government subsidies to Europe's Airbus SE and its US rival, Boeing Co.
The notice follows an announcement by the US Trade Representative's office that it would impose an additional 15 percent tariff on aircraft parts, including fuselage and wing assemblies, and a 25 percent duty on certain wines.
Talks between Washington and Brussels to end the battle stalled in the final weeks of the Trump administration, a European source familiar with the matter said.
Washington had also pressed to reach a separate solution with Britain, which has a share in Airbus, but has exited the EU.Brussels said it would seek swift resolution of the issue with US President-elect Joe Biden, who takes office on January 20.
The Biden team had no immediate comment on the tariff issue.
Both Washington and Brussels have won cases at the World Trade Organization, the former allowed to impose tariffs on $7.5 billion of EU goods and the latter extra duties on $4 billion of imports from the United States.
Airbus said USTR's expansion of tariffs to include aircraft components made in France and Germany was counterproductive and would wind up harm US workers at its Mobile, Alabama site where it assembles A320 and A220 aircraft.
The measure will hit A320 production which uses components from France and Germany, while the A220 production does not, according to an Airbus spokesman.
Airbus delivered more than 40 A320 Family planes from Mobile in 2020, but the number will be lower this year due to the pandemic, a spokesman said.
The initial impact may be muted since aerospace companies generally procure large components such as wings and fuselages well in advance to ensure smooth production flows.
Aircraft were already covered by US tariffs, but the addition of components closed a loophole that had allowed Airbus planes assembled in Mobile to be sold in the United States free of tariffs.
Unless the issue is resolved quickly, those aircraft are likely to be uncompetitive in the US market.
Some alcohol from the Airbus-producing nations - France, Germany, Spain and Britain - had already been subject to tariffs, but new varieties are now affected.
The French wine exporters' federation called it a sledgehammer blow.
Unlike previous short-notice tariff actions, USTR did not grant any exclusions for products already in transit or on the water, said Ben Aneff, president of the US Wine Trade Alliance, calling the decision deeply unfair.
Aneff urged US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in a letter on Monday to amend the action to exempt goods in transit when the tariffs were announced less than two weeks ago on December 30, noting that ocean transit can take 22 to 40 days.
Aneff said the move would hit many US businesses in the hospitality, restaurant and wine industry with sharply higher costs at a time when they were already being hammered by pandemic-related closures.
Twitter bans tens of thousands of QAnon-linked accounts
Twitter Inc has suspended more than 70,000 accounts since Friday that were primarily dedicated to sharing QAnon content after last week's violence in Washington when supporters of US President Donald Trump stormed the US Capitol.
Given the violent events in Washington, DC, and increased risk of harm, we began permanently suspending thousands of accounts that were primarily dedicated to sharing QAnon content on Friday afternoon, Twitter said in a blog late on Monday.
These accounts were engaged in sharing harmful QAnon-associated content at scale and were primarily dedicated to the propagation of this conspiracy theory across the service, the company said.
QAnon backers have pushed conspiracies on social media that include the baseless claim that Trump secretly is fighting a cabal of child-sex predators, among them prominent Democrats, figures in Hollywood and deep state allies.
Twitter had said on Friday it would permanently suspend accounts pushing QAnon content, banning prominent right-wing boosters of its conspiracy theories.
We're keeping you informed of all the steps we're taking to protect the public conversation.
We’ve summarized our recent enforcement actions and what you can expect from us moving forward.
The storming of the Capitol building last week by Trump supporters delayed the certification of Biden's election victory.
Lawmakers were forced to flee, as the building was mobbed by the president's supporters who overwhelmed security forces.
Five people died in the violence including one Capitol Police officer who was beaten as he tried to ward off the crowds.
Twitter announcement came as Amazon.com Inc said it was working to remove some QAnon products from its online marketplace, citing policies that prohibit offensive items or other inappropriate content.
The world's largest online retailer drew scrutiny for having apparel with QAnon insignia and related books up for sale days after QAnon followers joined last week's siege of the US Capitol, which left five people dead.
Meanwhile, PayPal Holdings Inc said it has blocked the Christian crowdfunding site GiveSendGo after it helped raise funds for people who attended last week’s event in Washington.
The digital payments processor also confirmed that it closed an account held by Ali Alexander, one of the organisers of the gathering.
Trump, who has without evidence challenged the validity of Biden’s election win, initially praised his supporters but later condemned the violence.
First gorillas in captivity test positive for coronavirus at San Diego park
Several gorillas at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park have tested positive for the coronavirus in what is believed to be the first cases among such primates in captivity.
The park’s executive director, Lisa Peterson, told The Associated Press on Monday that eight gorillas that live together at the park have the virus and several have been coughing.
The infection came from a member of the park’s wildlife care team that also tested positive for the virus but has been asymptomatic.
Veterinarians are closely monitoring the gorillas who will remain in their habitat at the park, north of San Diego, Peterson said.
While other wildlife has contracted the coronavirus from minks to tigers, the gorilla cases are believed to be the first reported from a zoo in the United States and possibly the world.
The safari park tested the gorillas using their fecal matter.
Members of our gorilla troop tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.
Aside from some congestion and coughing, the gorillas are doing well and we are hopeful for a full recovery.
Read the full update:
For now, the park's wildlife team is closely monitoring their behavior.
They are being given vitamins, fluid and food but no specific treatment for the virus.
The zoo officials are working closely with experts who have been treating the coronavirus in humans in case the animals' develop more severe symptoms.
“This is wildlife, and they have their own resiliency and can heal differently than we do, Peterson said, adding that for now the focus is to keep them “healthy and thriving.
Trump administration re-designates Cuba as state sponsor of terrorism
The Trump administration has re-designated Cuba as a “state sponsor of terrorism,” in a move that hits the country with new sanctions shortly before President-elect Joe Biden takes office.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced the step, citing in particular Cuba’s continued harbouring of US fugitives as well as its support for Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro.
The designation is one of the latest in a series of last-minute moves that the Trump administration is making before Biden takes office on January 20.Removing
Cuba from the blacklist had been one of former President Barack Obama’s main foreign policy achievements as he sought better relations with the communist island, an effort endorsed by Biden as his vice president.
Ties had been essentially frozen after Fidel Castro took power in 1959.As he has with Iran, Trump has sought to reverse many of Obama’s decisions involving Cuba.
He has taken a tough line on Havana and rolled back many of the sanctions that the Obama administration had eased or lifted after the restoration of full diplomatic relations in 2015.Since Trump took office, after a campaign that attacked Obama's moves to normalise relations with Cuba, ties have been increasingly strained.
In addition to attacking Cuba for its support of Maduro, the Trump administration has also suggested that Cuba may have been behind or allowed alleged attacks that left dozens of US diplomats in Havana with brain injuries starting in late 2016.Nonetheless, the Trump administration has pursued an antagonistic policy toward Cuba, steadily increasing restrictions on flights, trade and financial transactions between the US and the island.
The latest sanctions reinstated by the Trump administration include major restrictions that will bar most travel from the US to Cuba and transfer of money between the two countries, a significant source of income for Cubans who have relatives in the United States.
Obama’s removal of Cuba from the “state sponsors of terrorism
” list had been a major target of Trump, Pompeo and other Cuba hawks in the current administration.
Former national security adviser John Bolton had been a main advocate of restoring the sanctions.
Cuba has repeatedly refused to turn over US fugitives that have been granted asylum, including a black militant convicted of killing a New Jersey state trooper in the 1970s.
In addition to political refugee status, US fugitives have received free housing, health care and other benefits thanks to Cuba’s government, which insists the US has no “legal or moral basis” to demand their return.
Cuba has had a long-standing alliance with Maduro, although it has long denied it has 20,000 troops and intelligence agents in Venezuela and says it has not carried out any security operations.
Cuban officials, however, have said they have the right to carry out broad military and intelligence cooperation that they deem as legitimate.
The relationship between the two countries has grown strong in the past two decades, with Venezuela sending Cuba oil shipments worth billions of dollars and receiving tens of thousands of employees, including medical workers.
In May 2020, the State Department added Cuba to a list of countries that do not cooperate with US counter-terrorism programmes.
In making that determination, the department said several leaders of the Colombian rebel National Liberation Army remained on the island despite attempts at dialogue.
Cuba has rejected such charges.
In repudiating the allegations, President Miguel Díaz-Canel has said Cuba was the victim of terrorism.
He cited an armed attack on its embassy in Washington last April as one example.
Cubans see the blacklist as helping the US justify the long-standing embargo on the island and other economic sanctions that have crippled its economy.
In the case of the Colombian rebel group, Cuba rejected the extradition of the leaders who were negotiating with Colombian President Iván Duque, whose peace efforts ended in 2019 after a bomb attack by the group in Bogotá.
Up to 15,000 troops authorised for Biden's inauguration
The Pentagon has said it has authorised 15,000 National Guard troops to be deployed for Joe Biden's January 20 inauguration amid fears of more violence by supporters of President Donald Trump.
Already 6,200 are on the ground in Washington, and a total of 10,000 are planned by the coming weekend, said General Daniel Hokanson, chief of the Defense Department's National Guard Bureau on Monday.
Another 5,000 could be deployed by the day of the inauguration, he said.
They will come equipped with riot gear and weapons, but so far they have not been authorised to arm themselves while on the streets of the US capital, he said.
For the moment their mission is to support local police in communications, logistics, and security, he said.
Authorising the National Guard to deploy in a law enforcement role, armed and empowered to make arrests, would be a last resort if the security situation got out of hand, Hokanson said.
The Pentagon and the Guard have been criticised for a slow response on Wednesday when the US Capitol was besieged by thousands of Trump supporters attacking an undermanned and unprepared Congressional security force.
But Pentagon officials say they were summoned late and did not immediately have with them the required riot gear.
They did not anticipate that level of violence, said Hokanson.
Earlier Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser, anticipating the possibility of tension around the inauguration, called for people to stay away from the city.
We are asking Americans not to come to Washington DC for the 59th presidential inauguration on January 20 and to instead participate virtually, she said.
The US National Park Service said it has closed the Washington Monument through January 24 due to continuing threats, from groups involved in last week's pro-Trump riot at the US Capitol, to disrupt Biden's inauguration.
Earlier, the FBI said armed protests are being planned at all 50 state capitals, Washington, DC ahead of Biden's inauguration.
Meanwhile, mounting impeachment pressure, the House worked swiftly on Monday to try to oust President Trump from office, pushing the vice president and Cabinet to act first in an extraordinary effort to remove Trump in the final days of his presidency.
Trump faces a single charge – incitement of insurrection – in an impeachment resolution that could go to a vote by mid-week.
First, Democrats called on Vice President Mike Pence to invoke constitutional authority under the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office before January 20, when Democrat Biden is to be inaugurated.
In all, these are stunning final moments for Trump's presidency as Democrats and
a growing number of Republicans declare that he is unfit for office and could do more damage after inciting a mob that ransacked the  in a deadly siege on Wednesday.
President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of government, read the four-page impeachment bill.
He will remain a threat to national security, democracy, and the Constitution if allowed to remain in office, it read.
Today, five days after the President incited a deadly insurrection against American democracy, the  blocked ’s legislation calling on  Pence to activate the 25th Amendment.
As our next step, we will move forward with bringing impeachment legislation to the Floor.
On Monday, a House resolution calling on Vice President Pence to invoke constitutional authority to remove Trump from office was blocked by Republicans.
However, the full House is set to hold a roll call vote on that resolution on Tuesday, and it is expected to pass.
After that, Pelosi said Pence will have 24 hours to respond.
Next, the House would proceed to impeachment.
A vote could come on Wednesday.
Pence has given no indication he is ready to proceed on such a course, which would involve invoking the 25th Amendment to the Constitution with a vote by a majority of the Cabinet to oust Trump before January 20.
Development pact inked as Russia hosts Azerbaijan, Armenia for talks
Russian President Vladimir Putin has brought together the leaders of Armenia and Azerbaijan for the first time since a war last year over the Nagorno-Karabakh region, in an effort to resolve problems that risk undermining the truce that ended the conflict.
Putin said on Monday the ceasefire deal, which saw Moscow deploy peacekeepers was being implemented without serious incident and the talks had been useful.
We were able to agree and sign a joint declaration on developing the region, he said.
I'm talking about concrete steps to build economic links and to develop (transport) infrastructure projects.
Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan said it has not been possible to broker an exchange of remaining prisoners, however.
But he, and Azeri President Ilham Aliyev, indicated progress in other areas, with both talking positively about economic and infrastructure prospects.
Aliyev said his country would have a rail link for the first time in over three decades with Nakhchivan, an Azeri exclave that borders Turkey and Iran, and that landlocked Armenia, via Azeri territory would get rail links with Russia and Iran.
The atmosphere at the talks was frosty.
Pashinyan and Aliyev did not shake hands, only exchanging curt greetings when they sat down in the Kremlin opposite Putin.
Relations between the former Soviet republics have been tense since 1991, when the Armenian military occupied Upper Karabakh, also known as Nagorno-Karabakh, internationally recognised as Azerbaijani territory, and seven adjacent regions.
When new clashes erupted on September 27, 2020, the Armenian army launched attacks on civilians and Azerbaijani forces and even violated humanitarian ceasefire agreements.
During the six-week-long conflict, Azerbaijan liberated several cities and nearly 300 settlements and villages, while at least 2,802 of its soldiers were killed.
There are differing claims about the number of casualties on the Armenian side, which, sources and officials say, could be up to 5,000.The two countries signed a Russian-brokered agreement on November 10 to end the fighting and work towards a comprehensive resolution.
A joint Turkish-Russian centre is being established to monitor the truce.
Russian peacekeeping troops have also been deployed in the region.
The ceasefire is seen as a victory for Azerbaijan and a defeat for Armenia, whose armed forces have withdrawn in line with the agreement.
Violations, however, have been reported in the past few weeks, with some Armenian soldiers said to have been hiding in the mountainous enclave.
Pompeo says US designating Yemen's Houthis a terrorist group
United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said Washington will designate Yemen's Houthi rebels as a terrorist group, a late-term move that aid groups fear will worsen a humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country.
With just 10 days left before President-elect Joe Biden takes office, the action could complicate the new administration's efforts to restart diplomacy with Iran, which has ties to the Houthis, and to reassess the US relationship with Saudi Arabia, which has led a brutal offensive in Yemen.
The designations are intended to hold Ansar Allah accountable for its terrorist acts, including cross-border attacks threatening civilian populations, infrastructure and commercial shipping, Pompeo said in a statement, using the official name of the Houthi movement.
It has led a brutal campaign that has killed many people, continues to destabilise the region and denies Yemenis a peaceful solution to the conflict in their country, he added.
Pompeo pointed to a December 30 attack on an airport in Yemen's second city Aden, which killed 26 people and on the Houthis.
The rebel group controls much of Yemen and is already under US sanctions.
But a designation as a terrorist group is expected to scare away outside actors from many transactions with Houthi authorities, including bank transfers and buying food and fuel.
Responding to Pompeo's announcement, a Houthi leader said Iran-aligned group reserved the right to respond to any US move to blacklist them.
The policy of the Trump administration and its behaviour is terrorist, Mohammed Ali al-Houthi said in a Twitter post.
We reserve the right to respond to any designation issued by the Trump administration or any administration.
The United Nations warned on Monday the US plan is likely to have serious humanitarian and political repercussions.
UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said it was imperative that the United States swiftly grant the necessary licenses and exemptions to ensure that principled humanitarian assistance can continue to reach all people ... without disruption.
He also said the United Nations was concerned that the designation may have a detrimental impact on efforts to resume the political process in Yemen, as well as to polarize even more positions of the parties to the conflict.
Aid groups as well as members of Biden's Democratic Party have warned that the move will severely impede efforts to address what the UN calls the world's largest humanitarian crisis.
The Norwegian Refugee Council, one of the main humanitarian agencies active in Yemen, said the designation and Pompeo's planned sanctions on the Houthis “will hamstring the ability of aid agencies to respond” to the humanitarian needs of millions of Yemenis.
“Yemen’s faltering economy will be dealt a further devastating blow,” said Mohamed Abdi, the group's director for Yemen.
“Getting food and medicine into Yemen — a country 80 precent dependent on imports — will become even more difficult.
”Pompeo insisted that the designations – which will come into effect a day before Biden takes office on January 19 – will not impact relief work.
We are planning to put in place measures to reduce their impact on certain humanitarian activity and imports into Yemen, Pompeo said.
We have expressed our readiness to work with relevant officials at the United Nations, with international and non-governmental organizations and other international donors to address these implications.
READ MMORE:
Turkey to start Covid-19 vaccination this week – latest updates
Turkey will begin administering Covid-19 vaccines as of Thursday or Friday, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said, adding that Ankara would also gradually lift restrictive measures as daily infections declined.
Turkey has agreed to purchase 50 million doses of Sinovac's CoronaVac vaccine and has taken delivery of an initial shipment of 3 million doses.
It has also agreed to procure 4.5 million doses of the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, with an option to procure 30 million more doses later.
Speaking after a cabinet meeting in Ankara, Erdogan said the vaccination process would begin either on Thursday or Friday inline with the vaccination programme set out by the government.
Italy reported 448 coronavirus-related deaths, up from 361 the day before, the Health Ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 12,532 from 18,627.However, the number of swab tests also fell, as often happens over the weekend, amounting to just 91,656 against a previous 139,758.Italy
has registered 79,203 Covid-19 deaths since its outbreak came to light on February 21, the second-highest toll in Europe and the sixth-highest in the world.
The country has also reported 2.289 million cases to date, the Health Ministry said.
Palestinian Authority has approved the main Russian vaccine against Covid-19, known as Sputnik V, for use in Palestinian self-ruled territory, Russia's sovereign wealth fund has said.
In the Israeli-occupied West Bank, Palestinian Health Minister Mai Alkaila confirmed that her ministry had granted emergency approval for the Russian vaccine to be administered in areas under limited Palestinian self-rule.
The first shipment of the Russian shot is expected to arrive next month, with all deliveries expected in the first quarter of this year, according to the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is responsible for marketing the vaccine abroad.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said Britain was in a race against time to roll out Covid-19 vaccines as deaths hit record highs and hospitals run out of oxygen, with his top medical adviser saying the pandemic's worst weeks were imminent.
A new, more transmissible variant of the disease is now surging through the population, with one in 20 people in parts of London now infected, threatening to overwhelm the health service with hospitals overloaded with patients.
The death toll in the United Kingdom has been soaring and now stands in excess of 81,000 — the world's fifth-highest toll — while more than 3 million people have tested positive.
A total of 2,286,572 people have received a first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the UK whilst 388,677 second doses have been given, according to government data published on Monday.
The first batch of Covid-19 jabs from the Chinese vaccine manufacturing company Sinopharm will arrive in Pakistan by the first week of February, a top Pakistani official has told Anadolu Agency.
Dr Faisal Sultan, a special assistant to the prime minister on health, said the first installment of 1.1 million doses for about 500,000 people will be received from Sinopharm.
Sultan, who is also the acting health minister, had told Anadolu Agency earlier that authorities were negotiating with China and Russia, among others, to procure the vaccines, and that frontline workers and senior citizens will be inoculated first.
Pakistan has so far recorded a total of 504,293 cases of Covid-19 with 10,676 deaths.
Britain is facing the worst weeks of the Covid-19 pandemic, its chief medical officer Chris Whitty said, with the health service facing a dangerous time as deaths and cases hit record highs before the rollout of a mass vaccination programme.
Deaths from the virus have now exceeded 81,000 in the United Kingdom, the world's fifth-highest toll, with more than 3 million people testing positive.
A new, more transmissible variant of the disease is surging through the population, with one in 20 people in parts of London now infected and is now the dominant strain across much of the country, Whitty added.
In a bid to get on top of the pandemic and to try to restore some degree of normality by the spring, Britain is rushing out its largest ever vaccination programme, with shots to be offered to all those in its top four priority categories, about 15 million people, by the middle of next month.
But the government's chief medical adviser Chris Whitty warned the situation would deteriorate in the meantime.
The next few weeks are going to be the worst weeks of this pandemic in terms of numbers into the National Health Service, he said.
Malaysia's Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin has announced a fresh lockdown in the capital Kuala Lumpur and five states, as the Southeast Asian nation's cumulative cases grew to over 135,000 as of Sunday.
Muhyiddin said interstate travel will also be barred during the two-week lockdown, but assured that five essential sectors will be allowed to continue operating under strict regulations.
Indonesia has given Sinovac Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine its first emergency use approval outside China as the world's fourth most populous country launches nationwide inoculations to stem surging infections and deaths.
A lack of data and varying efficacy rates reported for the vaccine from different countries could undermine public trust in the rollout, according to public health experts.
Interim data from a late-stage human test of CoronaVac showed it is 65.3 percent effective, Indonesia's food and drugs authority BPOM said, lower than figures in Brazil and Turkey which have yet to launch mass vaccinations.
These results meet the requirements of the World Health Organization of minimum efficacy of 50 percent, BPOM head Penny K. Lukito told a news conference.
President Joko Widodo is set to get his first dose on Wednesday in a sign of the priority placed on immunisation in a country of 270 million people that has done far less than Southeast Asian neighbours to contain the virus.
Russia has reported 23,315 new Covid-19 cases, including 4,646 in Moscow, taking the national tally, the world's fourth highest, to 3,425,269 since the pandemic began.
Authorities also confirmed 436 Covid-19 deaths during the past 24 hours, pushing the official death toll to 62,273.Meanwhile, production of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine will total four million doses over the next 30 days, the RIA news agency cited the director of the Gamaleya Institute which developed the vaccine as saying.
Chinese authorities have said a World Health Organization (WHO) team of international experts tasked with investigating the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic will arrive in China on Thursday.
Lack of authorisation from Beijing had delayed the arrival of the 10-strong team on a long-awaited mission to investigate early infections, in what China's foreign ministry called a misunderstanding.
The National Health Commission, which announced the arrival date, delayed from its early January schedule, did not detail the team's itinerary, however.
China has been accused of a cover-up that delayed its initial response, allowing the virus to spread since it first emerged in the central city of Wuhan late in 2019.The
United States has called for a transparent WHO-led investigation and criticised its terms, which allowed Chinese scientists to do the first phase of preliminary research.
Malaysia has signed a deal to buy an additional 12.2 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by US and German drugmakers Pfizer and Biontech, the health ministry said in a statement.
The deal brings the total amount of the Pfizer vaccines procured by Malaysia to 25 million doses, enough to cover 39 percent of its population, the ministry said.
The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany has increased by 12,497 to 1,921,024, data from the Robert Koch Institute, RKI, for infectious diseases showed.
The reported death toll rose by 343 to 40,686, the tally showed.
Indonesia has extended a ban on the arrival of foreign tourists into the country for another two weeks.
The 14-day extension came in a bid to control the transmission of the coronavirus, Indonesian chief economic minister said.
The reason for the stricter measures against international visitors, which were imposed on January 1, was to try to keep out the new Covid-19 variant first detected in Britain, the government has said.
Meanwhile, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin said the country would begin Covid-19 vaccination this week and President Joko Widodo will be the country’s first vaccine recipient.
Indonesia’s top Muslim body had earlier declared China’s Sinovac vaccine for Covid-19 halal, or permissible under Islam.
Thailand has reported 249 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of infections to 10,547 since it detected its first case almost a year ago.
The tally included 25 cases imported from abroad, according to the country's Covid-19 taskforce.
There were no new deaths reported.
Thailand has recorded 67 coronavirus-related fatalities so far.
The Japanese Health Ministry has found a variant in people arriving from Brazil that’s different from the ones in Britain and South Africa.
The variant was found in airport tests on a man in his 40s, a woman in her 30s and two teens, the ministry said Sunday.
Japan was working with other nations, the WHO and other medical experts to analyse the new version of the virus, and it was still unclear whether available vaccines would work.
The man who tested positive had no symptoms upon arrival but was hospitalised after his breathing became difficult.
The woman suffered head aches, one teen, a male, had a fever, while the other female teen had no symptoms, according to the ministry.
About 30 cases of variants from Britain and South Africa have earlier been reported in Japan.
Experts are worried the variants appear to spread faster.
Britain will open seven large-scale vaccination centres on Monday, helping to accelerate the rollout of shots that the government wants to deliver to all vulnerable people by mid-February.
The country, which was the first to approve vaccines developed by Pfizer/BioNTech and by Oxford/AstraZeneca, is currently immunising about 200,000 people a day, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said.
It needs to boost that rate to 2 million a week to meet its target of vaccinating those in care homes, the over-70s, the clinically vulnerable with pre-existing conditions and health and social-care workers by February 15.Britain is battling surging infections but is pinning its hopes on rapid immunisation to enable life to start returning to some degree of normality by the spring.
Health Secretary Matt Hancock will set out his immunisation plan, the biggest vaccination programme in British history, later on Monday.
Mainland China reported 103 new cases on January 10, up from 69 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Monday.
The National Health Commission, in a statement, said 82 of the 85 local infections were reported in Hebei province.
Another 18 cases were imported infections originating from overseas.
The new strain of the virus first detected in Britain has been confirmed in Mexico, the health ministry of northern Tamaulipas state said in a statement on Sunday, adding a new layer of concern to an already severe national outbreak.
Meanwhile, the country reported 10,003 new cases and 502 more fatalities according to health ministry data, bringing its total to1,534,039 infections and 133,706 deaths.
The real number of infected people and deaths is likely significantly higher than the official count, the ministry has said, due to little testingSouth Korea reported 451 new cases as of Monday midnight, the first time the daily infections had dropped below 500 since the beginning of December last year, the Korea Disease Control and PreventionAgency said on Monday.
Of the new cases, 419 were locally transmitted and 32 were imported.
Australia's third-largest city lifted stay-at-home orders Monday, after mass testing and tracing across Brisbane found no new cases despite fears over a contagious strain entering the community.
More than two million people were ordered into a snap lockdown Friday after a cleaner at a quarantine hotel contracted the UK variant of Covid-19 from a returned traveller.
Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the lockdown would be lifted at 6pm local time Monday after tens of thousands of tests detected zero cases of transmission.
She defended the measures as definitely not an over-reaction.
It will remain compulsory to wear masks indoors and on public transport until January 22, while restaurants and pubs will be subject to fresh restrictions on patron numbers.
Britain said it has helped raise $1 billion from global donors towards the drive to help vulnerable countries access coronavirus vaccines, by match-funding contributions.
The UK said, in addition, it has committed £548 million to the COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC), after matching with £1 every $4 pledged by other donors.
Canada, Japan and Germany are among the countries to make contributions that it matched, helping the AMC raise more than $1.7 billion in total so far.
The fund will allow for the distribution of one billion Covid- 19 vaccine doses to 92 developing countries this year, according to Britain's Foreign Office.
France's health minister says that more than 50,000 doses of the Moderna vaccine, newly authorised in Europe, would be ready for use this week in hard-hit regions.
Olivier Veran told Europe 1 radio that after arriving in France Monday, the vaccine would be sent to towns and cities with the highest virus circulation, from Strasbourg on the German border to Nice on the Mediterranean.
Coming on top of ongoing distribution of Pfizer-BioNTech shots, the Moderna doses would reach vaccination centres by Wednesday, Veran added.
The health ministry said in a statement that almost eight million doses of Moderna's vaccine would arrive in France by July.
Like the Pfizer/BioNTech jab, it takes two injections spaced out over several weeks for Moderna's version to reach maximum effectiveness.
It poses fewer logistical challenges however as it requires storage only at -20 Celsius rather than around -80C for Pfizer/BioNTech's vaccine.
Brazil records 29,792 additional confirmed cases in the past 24 hours, along with 469 deaths, the Health Ministry said on Sunday.
Brazil has registered more than 8.1 million cases of the virus since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 203,100, according to ministry data.
The Indian Ocean archipelago of the Seychelles began vaccinating its population, the first African nation to do so.
The country's president, Wavel Ramkalawan, was the first to receive the jab, an event broadcast on live television at a hospital in the capital Victoria.
Several dozen other public figures joined him.
It's exactly as if I was getting any vaccine, he said, encouraging all the people of the island nation to get the injection.
The country is using the Chinese vaccine developed by the Chinese pharma giant Sinopharm with its su bsidiary
the China National Biotec Group
(CNBG).Health Minister Peggy Vidot said Thursday that the country had received a donation of 50,000 doses of the vaccine from the United Arab Emirates.
Health workers will start being vaccinated on Monday, and then people aged over 65, followed by distribution to the rest of the population.
The Seychelles hopes to vaccinate 70 percent of its population within two to three months, at a rate of 1,000 per day.
Moscow on Sunday confirmed its first case of the new UK strain, despite an earlier decision by officials to suspend flights from Britain to stop the mutation reaching Russia.
One person returning to Russia from the UK was found to have been infected with the new strain, the head of Russia's health regulator Rospotrebnadzor told state-run television.
Watchdog head Anna Popova did not specify when the individual tested positive or any other circumstances surrounding the discovery.
The B117 strain is thought to have first emerged in southeastern England late last year, and has since been detected in dozens of countries around the world.
Officials in Moscow temporarily suspended flights to and from the UK in December, following a similar move by dozens of other countries in the wake of the emergence of the new strain.
Russia has one of the highest infection rates in the world and officials on Sunday confirmed a total of nearly 3.5 million cases.
A heatwave bringing temperatures as high as 28 Celsius (82 F) prompted Greeks to cut loose during their lockdown Sunday and flock to beaches and parks.
According to the National Observatory of Athens, the temperature in Chania, on the southern island of Crete, was 28.3 C around noon, one of the highest January temperatures of the last 50 years.
Normal Greek temperatures this time of the year are around 15 C.In Athens, where thermometers reached 22 C, people flocked to nearby beaches, squares and parks.
It's great weather
and we are inside our homes so much of the time, a man told Skai TV from Kavouri beach, near Athens, were many people were walking and some also took a dip.
The warm weather from Africa also brought fair amounts of dust to Greece and is forecast to keep temperatures high until Wednesday.
Police monitored the situation to try and avoid overcrowding.
Officers with loudspeakers reminded people to practice social distancing and fined those who did not wear masks.
Greece has been in lockdown since early November, as authorities try to avoid a third wave of the pandemic after Christmas and New Eve celebrations.
Without Twitter, Donald Trump wakes up to a cyberpunk nightmare
Can social media ever be ethical?
Vecihi Hurkus: a little-known mastermind who built Turkey's first airplane
Did US Big Tech finally submit to Big Government?
Germany revokes the asylum status of an Assad loyalist
What do EU citizens living in the UK think of Brexit?
A war on ‘domestic terrorism’ would be a disaster for US minorities
Turkey court gives cult head Adnan Oktar over 1,000 years in jail
A Turkish court has slapped cult leader Adnan Oktar with over 1,000 years in prison for 10 separate crimes, Anadolu Agency reported citing sources.
The court in Istanbul tried 236 defendants, including 78 remanded for their organised crimes under Oktar's lead, said the source on Monday on condition of anonymity due to restrictions on speaking to the media.
The court gave Oktar a total of 1,075 years and three months in prison over the charges of founding and leading a criminal organisation, political or military espionage, aiding Fetullah Terrorist Organisation (FETO), despite not being a member, sexual abuse of minors, sexual abuse, deprivation of liberty of the person, torture, disturbance of right to education, recording personal data, and threats.
The 64-year-old cult leader, who owned a TV channel, was arrested in 2018 along with 200 collaborators, following allegations of sexual abuse and kidnapping of minors.
Oktar's TV channel broadcasted his shows surrounded by women he referred to as his “kittens.
Tarkan Yavas, one of the defendants, received a 211-year prison sentence for being an executive member of the organisation, sexual abuse of a minor, sexual abuse, misstatement of property, and committing perjury in an official document.
Oktar Babuna, another defendant, was given 186 years in jail for being a member of a criminal organisation, sexual abuse of a minor, and sexual abuse.
The court continues to declare rulings on other defendants.
Oktar – also known by his pen-name Harun Yahya – has authored numerous books promoting creationism against Darwin's theory of evolution as well as conspiracy theories.
Biden picks veteran US diplomat Burns as CIA director
US President-elect Joe Biden has chosen veteran diplomat William Burns to be his CIA director, according to a statement, that called Burns an exemplary diplomat with decades of experience.
Bill Burns is an exemplary diplomat with decades of experience on the world stage keeping our people and our country safe and secure, Biden said in a statement on Monday.
He shares my profound belief that intelligence must be apolitical and that the dedicated intelligence professionals serving our nation deserve our gratitude and respect.
Ambassador Burns will bring the knowledge, judgment, and perspective we need to prevent and confront threats before they can reach our shores.
The American people will sleep soundly with him as our next CIA director.
A former ambassador to Russia and Jordan, Burns, 64, had a 33-year career at the State Department under both Republican and Democratic presidents.
He rose through the ranks of the diplomatic corps to become deputy secretary of state before retiring in 2014 to run the Carnegie Endowment of International Peace.
Amid tumult in the State Department, after President Donald Trump took office in 2017, Burns held his tongue until last year when he began writing highly critical pieces of the Trump administration's policies in Foreign Affairs and other publications.
Burns has been a staunch advocate of rebuilding and restructuring the foreign service, positions Biden has aligned himself with.
Burns was said to have been a candidate to be Biden's secretary of state.
Biden chose Anthony Blinken instead.
If confirmed by the Senate, Burns would succeed Gina Haspel.
As the first female CIA director, Haspel guided the agency under Trump, who has frequently disparaged the assessments of US spy agencies, especially about Russia's interference in the 2016 election to help his campaign.
The president has placed quote marks around the word intelligence in his tweets, implying that he doesn't agree with the term, and has fired several career intelligence professionals in favour of loyalists, including some with little to no experience in the field.
Burns has received three Presidential Distinguished Service Awards and the highest civilian honours from the Pentagon and the US intelligence community.
He has doctoral degrees in international relations from Oxford University, where he studied as a Marshall Scholar.
Burns, a graduate of La Salle University in Philadelphia with advanced degrees from Oxford University, joined the foreign service in 1982 and before being named ambassador to Russia in 2005, served as a top aide to former Secretaries of State William Christopher and Madeleine Albright as well as director of the State Department’s policy planning office.
Burns was a close adviser and confidante to Christopher, Albright, Colin Powell, Condoleezza Rice, Hillary Clinton, and John Kerry before his retirement.
In his 2019 book The Back Channel: A Memoir of American Diplomacy and the Case for Its Renewal, Burns called for a revamp of American diplomacy, while recalling his days in the field, including helping to spearhead the early stages of the Obama administration’s outreach to Iran in 2013.Burns must be confirmed by the US Senate, in which Biden's fellow Democrats narrowly hold the majority.
Biden has asked Congress to confirm his national security team as close to his January 20 inauguration as possible, but still faces the prospect of having few permanent appointees in place when he takes office.
Biden, who served as vice president under former Democratic President Barack Obama, has said he would restore the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, which Trump abandoned.
"We are removing a dictator": Bobi Wine asks Ugandans to vote for him
Qatar and Saudi Arabia resume direct flights after thaw
Direct flights between Qatar and Saudi Arabia have resumed as the neighbours normalise ties under a landmark agreement that ended a bitter three-year rift.
The first commercial flight between Qatar and Saudi Arabia in three and a half years, a Qatar Airways service to Riyadh, took off from windswept Doha airport around 1100 GMT and touched down at 1210 GMT.Airport staff filmed aircraft taxiing on the runway in anticipation of the departure, according to an AFP correspondent on the ground.
Economy tickets for flight QR1164 aboard an Airbus A350 were on sale for around $650 one way to cover the roughly 600 km between the neighbours' capitals.
Saudi Arabia and its allies the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt in June 2017 slapped a blockade on Qatar that included closing airspace to the country over claims it backed militant groups and was too close to Iran.
Qatar has always denied the charges.
The quartet agreed to lift the restrictions at a Gulf Cooperation Council summit last week in the Saudi desert city of Al Ula, after a flurry of diplomatic activity by outgoing US President Donald Trump's administration.
A Saudia Airlines plane will also fly on Monday from Riyadh to Doha, departing the kingdom at 1340 GMT according to its online schedule, with services from Jeddah expected to start at a later date.
Just as the first flight to Riyadh was preparing to take off, Qatar Airways tweeted that services to Jeddah and Dammam would resume later in the week.
Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates have both opened their airspace to Qatari aviation under the deal
but there has been no word on when the first direct flights will take off.
Saudi Arabia's closure of its airspace has forced Qatar Airways aircraft to fly over Iran, Riyadh's arch-rival and long-time adversary of Washington, paying significant overflight fees to Tehran in the process.
has reported that Qatar pays $100 million annually to fly over the Islamic republic, citing diplomatic sources.
US national security adviser Robert O'Brien said in November that allowing Qatari planes to fly over Saudi Arabia via an air bridge was a priority for the outgoing Trump administration.
The economic hit of the crisis, coinciding with low oil prices and the coronavirus downturn, was felt across the region.
Well-heeled Saudis were unable to visit Doha for holidays and long weekends while expats living in Qatar were unable to visit popular destinations like Dubai without tedious detours via Kuwait or Oman.
China denies imposing coercive birth control measures for Uighur women
A Chinese official has denied that Beijing had imposed coercive birth control measures among Muslim minority women, following an outcry over a tweet by the Chinese Embassy in Washington that claimed government policies had freed women of the Uighur ethnic group from being “baby-making machines.
”Xu
Guixiang, a deputy spokesperson for the Xinjiang regional government, told reporters on Monday that birth control decisions were made of the person’s own free will and that “no organisation or individual can interfere.
”“The growth rate of the Uighur population is not only higher than that of the whole Xinjiang population, but also higher than that of the minority population, and more significantly higher than that of the (Chinese majority) Han population, Xu said.
“As for the so-called forcing ethnic minority women in Xinjiang to wear IUDs, or undergo tubal ligations or abortions, it is even more malign.
”report
in June had said that the Chinese government was forcing draconian birth control measures on Uighurs, Kazakhs, and other ethnic minorities in Xinjiang, including IUD fittings, contraceptives, and even abortions and sterilisations.
The measures are backed by the threat of detention, with parents of three or more children swept into camps and prisons if they’re unable to pay massive fines.
As a result, the birth rate in Xinjiang’s minority regions plummeted by over 60 percent in just three years, even as Beijing eases birth restrictions on the Han population ahead of a looming demographic crisis.
Twitter took down the Chinese Embassy's January 7 tweet following protests by groups that accuse Beijing of seeking to eradicate Uighur culture.
Users complained the tweet was a violation of rules set by Twitter, which is blocked in China along with Facebook and other American social media platforms.
“China’s fascist government is now openly admitting and celebrating its use of concentration camps, forced labor, forced sterilisations and abortions, and other forms of torture to eliminate an ethnic and religious minority, Nihad Awad, national executive director of The Council on American-Islamic Relations, said .China has been waging a years-long campaign against what it calls terrorism and religious fanaticism in Xinjiang and the embassy's tweet referenced those policies, saying: “Study shows that in the process of eradicating extremism, the minds of Uygur women in Xinjiang were emancipated and gender equality and reproductive health were promoted, making them no longer baby-making machines.
The tweet cited a study by Li Xiaoxia, a Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences researcher who has asserted that the birth control measures in Xinjiang are voluntary.
Li’s papers in past years laid the theoretical foundations for justifying mass birth control measures.
In one 2017 paper, Li said having many children was a sign of “religious extremism and ethnic separatism.”
Li worried that predominantly minority districts were breeding grounds for terrorism, calling it “a big political risk.”
Appalled and disgusted at lies of the .
Mass detention is not emancipation.
Coercive population control is not reproductive health care.
Uyghur women deserve to enjoy their religious freedom and unalienable rights with dignity to make their own choices.
A US official voiced disgust on Friday after China's embassy took to social media to laud how women of the mostly Muslim Uighur community were no longer baby-making machines.
Appalled and disgusted at lies of the Chinese embassy, tweeted Sam Brownback, the US envoy on international religious freedom.
Coercive population control is not reproductive health care.
(Uighur) women deserve to enjoy their religious freedom and unalienable rights with dignity to make their own choices.
Rights groups say more than one million Uighurs and other mostly Muslim people in China's northwestern region of
Xinjiang have been incarcerated in camps in a bid to root out Islamic customs and forcibly integrate minorities.
China insists it is offering vocational training to reduce the allure of extremism in the wake of deadly attacks.
Israel announces 800 new illegal settlements in occupied West Bank
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has ordered that plans be advanced to construct some 800 illegal homes for Jewish settlers in the occupied West Bank, according to an official statement.
Monday's announcement was widely expected ahead of the January 20 inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden, who unlike outgoing President Donald Trump, has been critical of Israeli illegal settlement policies in the past.
The prime minister ordered the advancement of construction of hundreds of homes in Judea and Samaria, the statement issued by Netanyahu's office said, using the Biblical names for the West Bank.
It said the 800 homes would be built in the settlements of Beit El, Tal Menashe, Rehelim, Shavei Shomron, Barkan, Karnei Shomron, and Givat Zeev, but gave no starting date for construction.
Palestinians have condemned Israeli settlement activity, on lands captured and annexed in the 1967 Middle East war, as an obstacle to the creation of a state they seek to create in the occupied West Bank and Gaza.
Most countries regard the settlements that Israel has built on occupied land as illegal.
Israel cites historical, political and biblical links to the West Bank and over 440,000 illegal Israeli settlers live there, among three million Palestinians.
Trump's administration provided unprecedented support to Israel in its conflict with the Palestinians, including by abandoning a decades-old US policy of opposing settlements.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo last year became the first top US diplomat to visit an occupied West Bank settlement.
Biden has pledged a more even-handed approach in which he will restore aid to the Palestinians that was cut off by Trump and work to revive peace negotiations.
The two sides have not held substantive peace talks in more than a decade.
Israeli opposition leader Yair Lapid, who hopes to unseat Netanyahu in March, called the settlement announcement an irresponsible step that would spark a battle with the new US administration.
The Biden administration has not yet taken office and the government is already leading us into an unnecessary confrontation, he tweeted.
The national interest must also be maintained during elections.
Turkey launches probe into Facebook, WhatsApp data collection
The Turkish Competition Board has launched an investigation into WhatsApp and its owner Facebook after the messaging app forced users to either agree to let Facebook  including phone numbers and locations or have their accounts deleted.
In a written statement, the Competition Board said it ruled that the requirement to allow the collection of that data should be suspended until the probe is complete.
The Competition Board has opened an investigation into Facebook and WhatsApp and suspended the requirement to share Whatsapp data, it said.
The authority suspended the data sharing, even if users accepted rules, due to the potential for irreparable losses, until the conclusion of the investigation.
In this context, Facebook too must suspend data sharing and announce its move to all users, the statement said.
WhatsApp updated its terms of service last Wednesday, allowing Facebook and its subsidiaries to collect user data.
The deadline for agreeing to the new terms is
February 8.After popular messaging app WhatsApp forced many users to agree to new privacy rules, a large number of people have started to seek alternatives for their smartphones.
Rival messaging apps Signal and Telegram have since seen a sudden increase in demand.
Turkish Presidency's Communications Office and the country's defence ministry are also  from WhatsApp to a locally-developed messaging app BiP.
Conservative network Parler forced offline after Capitol violence
The conservative social network Parler has been forced offline after Amazon warned the company would lose access to its servers for its failure to properly police violent content.
The site's popularity soared in recent weeks, becoming the number one download from Apple's App Store after the much larger  from its platform for his role in inciting a riot at the US Capitol last week.
Messages of support for  in Washington DC, along with calls for more demonstrations, had flourished on the platform, leading Google to remove it from its app store on Friday, followed by Apple on Saturday.
Amazon then confirmed it would suspend the platform from its cloud hosting services for allowing threats of violence.
In a letter to Parler's owners, the web giant said it would suspend service by 11:59 PM on Sunday (0759 GMT Monday).
Satellite internet is the answer to gov controlled social & mainstream media.
Just so happens Elon Musk is on track to launch it in 2021.Amazon pulls plug on Parler in 24hrs.
—join forces in beta program!Opportunity to save  & free speech at the same time!Parler CEO announces their entire system has been shut down, no vendors will touch them, and that will be offline for the foreseeable future.
Parler CEO John Matze decried the punishments as “a coordinated attack by the tech giants to kill competition in the marketplace.
We were too successful too fast,” he said in a Saturday night post, saying it was possible Parler would be unavailable for up to a week “as we rebuild from scratch.”“Every
vendor, from text message services, to e-mail providers, to our lawyers all ditched us too on the same day,” Matze said Sunday on Fox New Channel’s “Sunday Morning Futures.”
He said while the company is trying to get back online as quickly as possible, it’s “having a lot of trouble, because every vendor we talk to says they won’t work with us, because, if Apple doesn’t approve and Google doesn’t approve, they won’t.
”Losing access to the app stores of Google and Apple,
whose operating systems power hundreds of millions of smartphones, severely limits Parler’s reach, though it had continued to be accessible via web browser.
They will NOT win!
We are the world's last hope for free speech and free information, he said.
Parler did not respond to a request for comment from AFP.The social network, launched in 2018, operates much like Twitter, with profiles to follow and parleys instead of tweets.
In its early days, the platform attracted a crowd of ultra-conservative and even extreme-right users.
But it now attracts many more traditional Republican voices.
star host Sean Hannity has 7.6 million followers, while his colleague Tucker Carlson has 4.4 million.
Elected officials present include Republicans Devin Nunes, a California congressman, and South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem.
Trump is not known to have a Parler profile.
Parler's recent growth was supercharged after last week’s violence in DC as new users, furious over Twitter's ban on Trump, flocked to the app.
In one now-deleted post, an account purporting to belong to Lin Wood, a pro-Trump lawyer, called for Vice President Mike Pence to be put in front of a firing squad -- threats which US media have reported led to a secret service investigation.
Supporters of President Trump expressed outrage at the news of the website being taken down.
Ahead of the shutdown, the President's son, Donald Trump Jr., complained that big tech has totally eliminated the notion of free speech in America.
Prominent pro-Trump commentator and conspiracy theorist Mark Dice took to Twitter to accuse Marxists of taking Parler offline, urging followers to register on secure messaging app Telegram and Gab, another site popular with the far-right.
With tech giants making their opposition clear, conservative sites such as Parler are likely going to have to find ways to adjust.
The DLive video streaming service, used by several protesters during the invasion of the Capitol, closed seven of its channels and pulled more than 100 videos from the site.
Gab may now also become a model for other websites, with CEO Andrew Torba claiming it had attracted 600,000 new users Sunday.
The platform drew fierce criticism in 2018 when investigators found that the shooter who killed 11 people in an attack on a Pittsburgh synagogue had earlier posted anti-Semitic messages on the site.
It has installed its own servers so as not to be dependent on outside providers.
Turkey's top institutions switch from Whatsapp to BiP
Turkish Presidency's Communications Office and the country's defence ministry are moving their chat groups from WhatsApp to
a locally-developed messaging app BiP.After popular messaging app WhatsApp forced many users to agree to new privacy rules, a large number of people have started to seek alternatives for their smartphones.
The changes in WhatsApp include sharing personal data with Facebook companies and the app could not be used unless the terms are accepted.
Countries in the EU are exempt from the data sharing due to their stringent social media regulations.
Thousands of social media posts with DeletingWhatsAppwere shared in Turkey with users announcing a switch to locally developed  apps such as BiP and Dedi.
The Turkish Presidency's Communications Office told journalists that WhatsApp groups will be moved to Turkey's local encrypted messaging app BiP after January 11 and the new group will serve as its main channel for public announcements.
BiP has been developed by Turkish mobile network giant Turkcell.
The company tweeted on Sunday that two million new users joined it in the past 48 hours.
Ailemize hoş geldiniz! BiP’li
olmanın keyfini
çıkarın.
🥳
Turkish Presidency's Digital Transformation Office head, Ali Taha Koc, earlier also urged Turkish people to use “national and local” apps such as BiP and Dedi.
Criticising WhatsApp’s new terms of services update, he said that foreign applications pose serious security risks.
“The distinction between EU members and other countries in terms of data privacy is unacceptable!
As we have referred in the Information and Communication Security Guideline, foreign applications carry significant risks regarding data security,” Koc said in a tweet.
We have to protect our digital data with our local apps.
Whatever foreign apps have to offer are presented much better by local apps.
We are hereby inviting our citizens to use locally developed apps BiP and Dedi, he said.
Yabancı menşeli muadillerinden çok daha fazlası,  ve
gibi milli ürünlerimizde var.
Tüm vatandaşlarımızı yerli ve milli uygulamaları kullanmaya davet ediyoruz.
🇹🇷
Meanwhile, Turkish drone magnate and Technical Manager of Baykar, Selcuk Bayraktar also said in a tweet on Saturday that he had left WhatsApp thanks to its new privacy policy.
I am leaving Whatsapp because of the new data policy it has put into practice.
Bayraktar said, using the DeletingWhatsApp tag.
He said that he uses the Turkish app BiP and open-source softwares like Telegram and Signal.
Whatsapp'dan uygulamaya koyduğu
yeni veri
politikası nedeniyle ayrılıyorum.
Kullandığım mesajlaşma programları:
Açık kaynak kodlu olduğu için:
Also, a top Turkish defense company Havelsan has said it had also developed an indigenous and safe messaging software, called ileti.ileti, designed for corporate communication,
is the first application which was developed with Whitebox Cryptography, WBC, Havelsan tweeted on Sunday.
With the WBC Library, ileti protects personal keys in software and prevents them from being captured, according to Havelsan's website.
With this feature, ileti is one step ahead of other instant messaging applications in terms of security.
The application ensures information security in corporate communication and protects data against third party intrusions, it also said.
Mutual instant messaging, secure voice and video calls, media and location sharing, and on-premise installation are available on ileti.
READ MORE:
JPMorgan suspends all campaign donations after US Capitol riot
JPMorgan Chase has said it has suspended all US political donations following the attack on the Capitol by a pro-Trump mob, joining a growing list of American corporations holding back funding since the violence.
The political action committee at JPMorgan, the country's largest bank by assets, will stop making any financial contributions to Republican and Democratic leaders for at least six months, a spokesperson told AFP Sunday.
The focus of business leaders, political leaders, civic leaders right now should be on governing and getting help to those who desperately need it most , said Peter Scher, the bank's head of corporate responsibility.
There will be plenty of time for campaigning later.
Other companies have opted to specifically target the Republican officials who on January 6 voted against certifying the results of the presidential election.
That day's assault saw a mob of angry Donald Trump supporters storm the US Capitol shortly after the president reiterated baseless election conspiracies to the crowd.
Five people died in the ensuing riot, including one police officer.
Billionaire investor Nelson Peltz, Ben & Jerry's ice cream company and the AFL-CIO – the largest trade union federation in the US – have since called for Trump's immediate departure from office.
Hospitality giant Marriott International said it will halt donations to those who voted against the certification of the election, a spokesperson told AFP Sunday.
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association of health insurance companies had already announced Friday it intended to suspend all contributions to those lawmakers who voted to undermine our democracy.
While a contrast of ideas, ideological differences and partisanship are all part of our politics, weakening our political system and eroding public confidence in it
must never be, the group's director general, Kim Keck, said in a statement.
Skepticism in India as it readies for world's largest vaccine rollout
As the director of a large hospital in the Indian state that has seen the country's most coronavirus cases, Dr. S.P. Kalantri had been waiting for the day a vaccine would be approved and bring protection not only to his community but also himself.
But now he has his doubts about getting the shots after India took a regulatory shortcut to approve a vaccine by Indian drugmaker Bharat Biotech before late clinical trials showed it was effective in preventing illness from coronavirus infections.
“I’d rather wait and watch,” said Kalantri, who runs a hospital in Maharashtra state's Wardha district.
He's not alone.
Several groups and unions representing scientists and doctors have also expressed their concerns over scant evidence of the effectiveness of the vaccine.
Many scientists have said that approving a vaccine without evidence from late trials is risky and a lack of transparency in the approval process could increase vaccine hesitancy in the world’s second-most populated country, where more than 10.4 million coronavirus cases have been reported among the nearly 1.4 billion people.
The homegrown vaccine was one of two that India authorised for emergency use on January 3.
The approval for the other, a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine made by world's largest vaccine maker Serum Institute of India, was given on the basis of partial results from studies in Britain and Brazil that suggested it was about 70 percent effective at preventing illness from coronavirus infection.
Initially, a member of India’s Covid-19 task force said that the Bharat Biotech vaccine would be a “backup.”
But on January 5, health officials said it would be given to people after getting their consent and ensuring more frequent follow-ups, suggesting both vaccines will be deployed.
It remains unclear as to which states will receive which vaccine and on what basis.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has touted the vaccines as evidence of India's growing self-reliance due to its protectionist policies.
On 16th January, India takes a landmark step forward in fighting COVID-19.
Starting that day, India’s nation-wide vaccination drive begins.
Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis.
On January 16 India will start the massive undertaking of inoculating an estimated 30 million doctors, nurses and other front line workers, before attention turns to around 270 million people who are either aged over 50 or have comorbidities.
About 150,000 staff in 700 districts have been specially trained, and India has held several national dry runs involving mock transportation of vaccines and dummy injections.
Authorities will use the experience from holding elections in the world's biggest democracy, and from regular child immunisation programmes for polio and tuberculosis.
But in an enormous, impoverished nation with often shoddy transport networks and one of the world's worst-funded healthcare systems, the undertaking is still daunting.
China and Russia have also administered vaccines while late clinical trials were still underway.
But India, which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, has drawn criticism for using two different standards, needing efficacy data for one and not the other, for greenlighting the use of the two vaccines as well as a lack of transparency in the process.
The panel of experts that eventually gave the nod to the vaccines met three times.
In the first two meetings, on December 30 and January 1, they were dissatisfied with Bharat Biotech's application and asked for more data on its ability to prevent illness from Covid-19, minutes from the meeting show.
The AstraZeneca vaccine, meanwhile, was greenlit on January 1.But on January 2, the experts permitted the restricted use of the Bharat Biotech vaccine as an “abundant precaution” after the company claimed that the vaccine had the potential to target a more contagious variant of the virus found in Britain.
Since its approval, Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Krishna Ella has acknowledged that the vaccine’s effectiveness against the UK variant is “only a hypothesis.
”Although minutes from the January 2 meeting maintain that the company presented “updated data,” there isn't any clarity as to what new evidence prompted the experts to change their minds, resulting in the need for “guess work,” said Dr. Anant Bhan, who studies medical ethics and was not on the panel.
Dr.
Vineeta Bal, who studies immune systems at India’s National Institute of Immunology, echoed the need for transparent approvals that includes data that confirms efficacy.
“This is a process that Indian government officials are themselves sabotaging,” she said.
India's main opposition Congress party has said that the premature clearance was “unprecedented, inadvisable and risks lives.”
That concern was echoed by the health minister of Chattisgarh state, TS Singh Deo, who said the Bharat Biotech vaccine shouldn't be used in the state.
“Rushing into general use before trials are complete will set a precedent where other companies will seek emergency use authorisation before completing mandated trials.
This may also jeopardize the valuable lives and health of our citizens,” Deo said.
Some have implied that the approval of the vaccine was based on nationalism.
After the AstraZeneca vaccine was approved and before the clearance for the Bharat Biotech vaccine was issued, a leader from Modi’s party tweeted that he was shocked to learn that a foreign vaccine had been approved, while an Indian vaccine lay “in the ditch.
”The
head of India's drug regulator has declined to comment on the controversy, while the identity of the experts on the panel that approved the vaccines has not been made public.
More than 150,000 Indians have died from Covid-19 and the economy is one of the worst-hit worldwide, with millions losing their livelihoods.
I look forward to getting the vaccine and living without fear and the mask all the time, migrant worker Shatrughan Sharma, 43, told AFP in the capital, New Delhi.
The last year was very tough for us.
But like in other countries, there is scepticism about the vaccine, fuelled by a torrent of misinformation online.
A recent survey of 18,000 people across India found that 69 percent were in no rush to get a Covid-19 shot.
Plans by Serum to sell the AstraZeneca jab privately to Indian individuals and firms for $14 (1,000 rupees) has raised fears that the rich will get inoculated sooner.
There will be a long wait for poor people like me as the rich and well-off will get it first, Suresh Paswan, a rickshaw puller in Patna, in the eastern province of Bihar, told AFP.
Trump National Golf Club stripped of 2022 PGA Championship
The PGA of America pulled the 2022 PGA Championship from the Trump National at Bedminster course in New Jersey, in the aftermath of Trump supporters' storming .The
PGA of America Board of Directors voted tonight to exercise the right to terminate the agreement to play the 2022 PGA Championship at Trump Bedminster, PGA of America
President Jim Richerson said in a statement posted on Twitter.
It has become clear that conducting the PGA Championship at Trump Bedminster would be detrimental to the PGA of America brand and would put at risk the PGA's ability to deliver our many programs and sustain the longevity of our mission, Richerson added in a video posted on the organization's website.
Golfweek, in a scathing column urging the game to sever ties with the president, said the PGA of America had been debating for two years whether to move the organisation's flagship event but had been nervous about antagonising a famously vindictive man.
Trump, who lost the 2020 presidential election in November to Democratic rival Joe Biden, could face a  before Biden's January 20 inauguration amid continued fury over the storming of the Capitol on Wednesday by angry Trump supporters that left five people dead.
Trump's repeated false claims of election fraud, and his incendiary address to protesters prior to the attack on the Capitol have prompted critics to call for his resignation, his impeachment, or his removal from office as unfit under the Constitution's 25th amendment.
Trump is an avid golfer and the Trump Organization owns 17 courses around the world with others in the works.
A website dedicated to tracking Trump's time on the course, Trump Golf Count, tallied 300 rounds over four years in office.
Golf greats Gary Player and Annika Sorenstam came in for criticism when they accepted the Presidential Medal of Freedom from Trump on Thursday, a day after the chaos in Washington.
Golf Digest, while noting that 15-time major champion Tiger Woods had also accepted the honour from Trump in May, called it a tone deaf gesture in an editorial calling for the sport to distance itself from Trump.
Trump's divisive rhetoric had long posed a problem for a game he has been identified with.
The US Golf Association resisted calls to move the 2017 US Women's Open from Trump National at Bedminster following comments on women made by Trump during his election campaign.
In 2016, the PGA Tour announced it was moving the 2017 World Golf Championship to Mexico from its home at Trump's famed Doral course in Miami.
The Tour insisted at the time the decision was not related to Trump's politics but admitted attracting a sponsor for the tournament had been challenging.
Donald Trump is a brand, a big brand, and when you're asking a company to invest millions of dollars in branding a tournament and they're going to share that brand with the host, it's a difficult decision, PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said at the time.
In Britain meanwhile, Trump's hopes of staging a British Open at his Turnberry golf course in Scotland have also been frustrated.
Turnberry hosted the most recent of its four Open championships in 2009.However in 2015, the Royal & Ancient, the governing body for golf, reportedly ruled out any chance of Turnberry staging the 2020 Open following racist remarks made by Trump during his presidential campaign.2020 will not happen here.
Turnberry will be back.
But perhaps not Trump Turnberry, an R&A official said at the time.
The 2021 PGA Championship is scheduled to be played at Kiawah Island Golf Resort in South Carolina.
The PGA of America is expected to announce a new host site for the 2022 event prior in the coming weeks.
'Sex and the City' returns as new HBO Max series
A revival of the hit show Sex and the City will come to HBO Max and will star all of its original leads except actress Kim Cattrall.
The new series, titled
And Just Like That..., will consist of 10 episodes and feature Sarah Jessica Parker, Cynthia Nixon and Kristin Davis, HBO said in a statement on Sunday.
Parker played protagonist and narrator Carrie Bradshaw.
Nixon and Davis played her best friends, lawyer Miranda Hobbes and art dealer Charlotte York, respectively.
Cattrall, who played sexually liberated publicist Samantha Jones, was not mentioned in the statement.
HBO did not specify why she was not returning.
The story will follow the three women as they navigate love and friendship in their 50s.
HBO did not specify a premiere date but said that production is set to start in New York City in late spring.
Parker, who will also produce alongside Nixon, Davis and Michael Patrick King, posted a teaser trailer on Instagram Sunday.
The short video is a montage of classic New York City shots, intercut with images of Parker's character Carrie Bradshaw's iconic computer screen, on which the phrases And just like that...and The story continues... are typed out.
Parker's signature voiceover accompanies the clips.
I grew up with these characters, and I can't wait to see how their story has evolved in this new chapter, with the honesty, poignancy, humor and the beloved city that has always defined them, said Sarah Aubrey, head of original content at HBO Max, in the statement.
The original Sex and the City, which HBO described as groundbreaking in its statement, was created by Darren Star based on Candace Bushnell's eponymous 1997 book.
It premiered in 1998 and ran for six seasons.
The show was also made into two movies that came out in 2008 and 2010.A prequel series, The Carrie Diaries, premiered on the CW in 2013 and ran for two seasons.
It is unclear if Star will return for the new series.
While promoting his latest project, the Netflix series Emily in Paris, he told industry specialist The Hollywood Reporter in October that he had no interest in returning to Sex and the City.
Real Madrid generate biggest income in Covid-hit season
La Liga champions
Real Madrid recorded overall income of $832 million (681.2 million euros) in the 2019-20 season despite an 8 percent drop in revenue.
The Spanish champions' revenues was the highest among the teams that won domestic titles in Europe's six major leagues, a study from auditing firm KPMG revealed on Sunday.
Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich recorded $739.3 million (607.2 million euros), followed by Premier League winners Liverpool $678.2 million (557 million euros) and Ligue 1's Paris St Germain
$658.2 million (540.6 million
euros).KPMG's
study also included Serie A's Juventus, whose revenue totalled $488.7 million (401.4 million euros) and
Portuguese Primeira Liga victors Porto who had the lowest revenue of the six champions at $106.3 million (87.3 million euros).The study said all six European domestic champions suffered a decrease in operating revenues due to the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
A crisis almost always provides the opportunity to highlight major failings in the business model and also to drive innovation and evolution, KPMG's global head of sports and the study's author Andrea Sartori said.
So it is encouraging to see football's governing bodies, associations and clubs discussing reforms regarding competitions calendar, cost control measures, alterations to the economics and governance of domestic and European competitions.
With matches cancelled or played behind closed doors from March 2020
onwards, all European champions barring Porto suffered the biggest blow through loss of matchday income, with Real being the hardest hit with $42.4 million (34.9 million euros) of losses.
Broadcasting income also reduced for all six champions, with Champions League performances playing a role.
Last season's finalists Bayern and PSG both registered a 4 percent decrease in their TV income, while Porto suffered a 63 percent drop, mainly due to their failure to qualify for the competition.
However, Liverpool (14 percent), Bayern (4 percent) and Real (2 percent) increased their commercial income, the only examples of revenue growth found in the study.
Only German champions Bayern $7.1 million (5.9 million euros) and
La Liga's Real $365,276 (300,000 euros) registered net profits in the 2019-20 season, unlike the 2018-19 campaign when all champions recorded profits.
PSG suffered the highest net loss at $153.1 million (125.8 million euros) after Ligue 1 was the only top domestic European league that ended its season in April amid the Covid-19 crisis.
READ MORE:
US House to begin impeachment proceedings against Trump
US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says the House will proceed with legislation to impeach President Donald Trump, calling him a threat to democracy after the deadly assault on the Capitol.
Pelosi made the announcement in a letter to colleagues on Monday.
She said the House will act with solemnity but also urgency with just days remaining before Trump is to leave office on January 20.“In protecting our Constitution and our Democracy, we will act with urgency, because this President represents an imminent threat to both,” she said.
“The horror of the ongoing assault on our democracy perpetrated by this President is intensified and so is the immediate need for action.
”With
impeachment planning intensifying, two Republican senators want Trump to resign immediately as efforts mount to prevent Trump from ever again holding elective office in the wake of deadly riots at the Capitol.
House Democrats are expected to introduce articles of impeachment on Monday and vote as soon as Tuesday.
The strategy would be to condemn the president's actions swiftly but delay an impeachment trial in the Senate for 100 days.
That would allow President-elect Joe Biden to focus on other priorities as soon as he is inaugurated Jan. 20.Rep.
Jim Clyburn, the third-ranking House Democrat and a top Biden ally, laid out the ideas Sunday as the country came to grips with the siege at the Capitol by Trump loyalists trying to overturn the election results.
“Let’s give President-elect Biden the 100 days he needs to get his agenda off and running,” Clyburn said.
Pressure was mounting for Trump to leave office even before his term ended amid alarming concerns of more unrest ahead of the inauguration.
The president whipped up the mob that stormed the Capitol, sent lawmakers into hiding and left five dead.
Republican Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania on Sunday joined Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska in calling for Trump to “resign and go away as soon as possible.
“I think the president has disqualified himself from ever, certainly, serving in office again,” Toomey said.
“I don’t think he is electable in any way.
”Murkowski, who has long voiced her exasperation with Trump’s conduct in office, told the Anchorage Daily News on Friday that Trump simply “needs to get out.”
A third Republican, Sen. Roy Blunt, of Missouri, did not go that far, but on Sunday he warned Trump to be “very careful” in his final days in office.
Corporate America began to tie its reaction to the Capitol riots by tying them to campaign contributions.
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association's CEO and President Kim Keck said it will not contribute to those lawmakers — all Republicans — who supported challenges to Biden's Electoral College win.
The group “will suspend contributions to those lawmakers who voted to undermine our democracy, Kim said.
The scenes from Wednesday were ugly and unforgettable, especially for those of us who lived through it.
But working together, we can protect American democracy for future generations.
Citigroup did not single out lawmakers aligned with Trump's effort to overturn the election, but said it would be pausing all federal political donations for the first three months of the year.
Citi’s head of global government affairs, Candi Wolff, said in a Friday memo to employees, “We want you to be assured that we will not support candidates who do not respect the rule of law.
”House leaders, furious after the insurrection, appear determined to act against Trump despite the short timeline.
Late Saturday, Pelosi, D-Calif., convened a conference call with her leadership team and sent a letter to her colleagues reiterating that Trump must be held accountable.
She told her caucus, now scattered across the country on a two-week recess, to “be prepared to return to Washington this week” but did not say outright that there would be a vote on impeachment.
“It is absolutely essential that those who perpetrated the assault on our democracy be held accountable,” Pelosi wrote.
“There must be a recognition that this desecration was instigated by the President.
”Senate
Majority Leader Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has said an impeachment trial could not begin under the current calendar before Inauguration Day, Jan. 20.I will vote to respect the American people’s decision and defend our system of government.
My full remarks: Clyburn said that Pelosi will make the determination as when is the best time” to send articles of impeachment to the Senate if and when they are passed by the House.
Another idea being considered was to have a separate vote that would prevent Trump from ever holding office again.
That could potentially only need a simple majority vote of 51 senators, unlike impeachment, in which two-thirds of the 100-member Senate must support a conviction.
The Senate was set to be split evenly at 50-50, but under Democratic control once Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and the two Democrats who won Georgia's Senate runoff elections last week are sworn in.
Harris would be the Senate's tie-breaking vote.
House Democrats were considering two possible packages of votes: one on setting up a commission to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office and one on the impeachment charge of abuse of power.
Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., who was part of the weekend leadership call, said he expected a “week of action” in the House.
While many have criticized Trump, Republicans have said that impeachment would be divisive in a time of unity.
Sen.
Marco Rubio, R-Fla., said that instead of coming together, Democrats want to “talk about ridiculous things like ‘Let’s impeach a president’ with just days left in office.
Still, some Republicans might be supportive.
Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse said he would take a look at any articles that the House sent over.
Illinois Rep. Adam Kinzinger, a frequent Trump critic, said he would “vote the right way” if the matter were put in front of him.
The Democratic effort to stamp Trump's presidential record — for the second time — with the indelible mark of impeachment had advanced rapidly since the riot.
Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I, a leader of the House effort to draft impeachment articles accusing Trump of inciting insurrection, said Sunday that his group had 200-plus co-sponsors.
The articles, if passed by the House, could then be transmitted to the Senate for a trial, with senators acting as jurors to acquit or convict Trump.
If convicted, Trump would be removed from office and succeeded by the vice president.
It would be the first time a US president had been impeached twice.
Potentially complicating Pelosi's decision about impeachment was what it meant for Biden and the beginning of his presidency.
While reiterating that he had long viewed Trump as unfit for office, Biden on Friday sidestepped a question about impeachment, saying what Congress did “is for them to decide.
”A
violent and largely white mob of Trump supporters overpowered police, broke through security lines and windows and rampaged through the Capitol on Wednesday, forcing lawmakers to scatter as they were finalizing Biden’s victory over Trump in the Electoral College.
Toomey appeared on CNN's “State of the Union” and NBC's “Meet the Press.”
Clyburn was on “Fox News Sunday” and CNN.
Kinzinger was on ABC's “This Week,” Blunt was on CBS' “Face the Nation” and Rubio was on Fox News Channel's “Sunday Morning Futures.”
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle quit social media
A UK newspaper is reporting that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have quit social media after growing disillusioned by the hate they have found on sites like Facebook and Twitter.
The couple were rejecting social media in both a personal and professional capacity as part of their new progressive role in the United States, the Sunday Times .A
source close to the couple told the newspaper they had no plans to use social media for their new Archewell Foundation and were very unlikely to restart utilising platforms personally.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, who moved to California last year after abruptly resigning from British royal duties, have previously had prominent presences online.
They amassed more than 10 million Instagram followers to their Sussex Royal account while they were working royals.
But the couple have also previously complained about their treatment on social media, as well as in the British press.
Meghan described past trolling of her as almost unsurvivable while Harry issued an unprecedented statement in 2016 denouncing the racial undertones of comment pieces and the sexism and racism of social media trolls.
Last year they launched a wide-ranging non-profit organisation, Archewell, after giving up their Sussex Royal brand as part of the terms of their departure from frontline monarchy duties.
They have started other creative ventures, including signing a deal with Spotify to produce podcasts that tell uplifting and entertaining stories.
The couple also signed a multi-year contract, reportedly worth tens of millions of dollars, with streaming giant Netflix to produce impactful films and series.
Meanwhile Markle, a former television actress, narrated a wildlife documentary on Disney+
in 2020.
Poll: 80% want Tokyo Games cancelled or delayed because of pandemic
A Kyodo News poll has showed that about 80 of people in Japan say this year's Tokyo Olympics should be cancelled or delayed as worries mount about a record surge in coronavirus cases across the country,
The survey found 35.3 want the Games to be cancelled and 44.8 favoured another delay.
The world's biggest multi-sports event, postponed last year due to the pandemic, is scheduled to be held from July 23-August 8 in the Japanese capital.
Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga declared a state of emergency for the greater Tokyo region on Thursday and could extend the measure to other areas as Japan struggles to contain a surge in infections.
It's a new year and the days are fast approaching.
We're wating for you .
😍
Suga has come under fire for his handling of the pandemic and his support rate has tumbled since he took office in September.
His cabinet's approval rate slid 9 points from a month earlier to 41.3 with the disapproval rate at 42.8, the Kyodo survey showed.
About 79 said Suga's decision to call the state of emergency for Tokyo came too late and 68 were dissatisfied with the government's response to the pandemic, the survey found.
Ethiopia: Senior members of Tigray forces killed, several captured
Ethiopia's military has said it has killed 15 members of the Tigray region's former ruling party and captured eight others, according to state-run TV.Citing a brigadier-general from Ethiopia's National Defence Force, the state-run Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation said on Sunday that those captured included the region's former president Abay Weldu, who was also a former chairman of the region's ruling party.
Those killed included the region's former deputy police commissioner, it said.
Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's government declared victory in its conflict with the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), a political party that previously governed the province, on November 28 after nearly a month of fighting.
Fugitive leaders of the TPLF had vowed to continue to fight from the mountains, but Reuters news agency has been unable to contact them for weeks.
The latest announcement about those killed and captured comes after the military said on Friday that it had captured Sebhat Nega, a founding member of the TPLF.
On Saturday, he was transported to the capital Addis Ababa, state TV reported.
The captured former TPLF president, Abay, was president of the region from 2010 to 2018, replaced by the group's current leader, Debretsion Gebremichael.
Abay was chairman of the party from 2012 to 2017, and was also succeeded by Debretsion in that position.
The region's former vice president, Abraham Tekeste, was also captured, state TV reported.
Tekeste had also been finance minister in the federal government from 2016 to 2018.The whereabouts of Debretsion, other members of the party's central committee and many high-ranking former military officers remains unknown.
Air strikes and battles since early November in Tigray are believed to have killed thousands of people.
Fighting is continuing in some parts and more than two million people need aid, the United Nations said this week.
Sudan voices frustration as three-nation talks on Nile dam stall
Negotiations between Ethiopia, Sudan, and Egypt, in a long-running dispute over the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) on the Blue Nile, have reached a new impasse.
We cannot continue this vicious cycle of circular talks indefinitely, Sudanese Irrigation Minister Yasir Abbas said in a statement on Sunday.
However, Egypt and Ethiopia, in separate statements, blamed Sudanese objections to the framework for the talks for the new impasse.
The Sudan News Agency said that Naledi Pandor, foreign minister of South Africa which chairs the African Union, voiced her regret that the talks reached a dead end.
Ethiopia sees the dam as key to plans to become Africa's largest power exporter.
Egypt, which gets more than 90 percent of its scarce fresh water from the Nile, fears the dam could devastate its economy.
Sudan said it was concerned the dam could overwhelm its nearby Roseires dam if an agreement is not reached that would allow the countries to share data.
Ethiopia said in a statement that despite previously insisting on meetings with the African Union experts, Sudan objected to their terms of reference and refused to include the experts in the meeting, effectively halting the talks.
Last week, the three countries had agreed to hold further talks to agree the filling and operation of the vast reservoir behind the 145-metre tall GERD.
The prolonged dispute between the three countries has continued even after the reservoir behind the $4 billion dam began filling in July.
Sudan insisted on the assigning of African Union experts to offer solutions to contentious issues ...
a proposal which Egypt and Ethiopia have reservations about
, Egypt's Foreign Ministry said in a statement posted to social media.
In its own statement on state news agency SUNA, Sudan said it objected to what it said was a January 8 letter from Ethiopia to the African Union stating that Ethiopia was determined to fill the reservoir for the second year in July with 13.5 million cubic metres of water, whether an agreement is reached or not.
In its own statement posted on the social media of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ethiopia said it took the initiative immediately to establish an effective and reciprocal data exchange mechanism.
Relations between Addis Ababa and Khartoum have deteriorated in recent weeks, with clashes reported along their frontier on the sidelines of an Ethiopian military operation in the Tigray region, bordering Sudan.
Ethiopia, which has said it reached its first-year target for filling the dam's reservoir, has recently signalled it would proceed with the filling regardless of whether a deal was concluded.
The Nile, the world's longest river, is a lifeline supplying both water and electricity to the 10 countries it traverses.
Its main tributaries, the White and Blue Nile, converge in the Sudanese capital Khartoum before flowing north through Egypt to drain into the Mediterranean Sea.
Ruling party wins landslide in Kazakhstan's parliamentary election
The Nur Otan party led by Kazakhstan's powerful ex-president Nursultan Nazarbayev has won a landslide in lower house election, exit poll data showed.
Nur Otan won almost 72 percent of the vote on Sunday, according to the Public Opinion research institute, a local pollster.
The oil-rich country's only registered opposition force boycotted the ballot.
But 80-year-old Nazarbayev retains powerful positions, including the chairmanship of the Nur Otan party that controls the lower house and boasts 800,000 members among a population of 19 million.
The party is expected to win a commanding majority in the lower house polls featuring four other competing parties that are viewed as proxies.
The only party that styles itself as the opposition, the National Social Democratic Party, NSDP, ruled itself out of the contest in November, calling the move a protest against a rigged system.
The ex-Soviet country has never held an election deemed free or fair by Western vote monitors.
Most residents of the capital
Nur-Sultan interviewed said they planned to skip the vote due either to the bitter cold or the lack of real alternatives to Nur Otan.
Sonya Sartayeva, a pensioner, said she would vote if they brought a ballot box to my house, as temperatures hovered well below freezing throughout the week.
She added that rising coronavirus cases, which climbed to more than 161,000 on the eve of the vote, were also a concern.
The most notable candidate on the ballot is Nazarbayev's eldest daughter, 57-year-old Dariga Nazarbayeva, who is representing Nur Otan.
Her return to politics comes just eight months after Tokayev fired her from the position of senate speaker, a role that places the occupant second in line to the presidency.
The dismissal, which was not explained, triggered speculation over a power struggle in Kazakhstan's leadership.
But the new president regularly lavishes praise on his mentor's achievements and has pledged to continue his strategic course.
The two men appeared together at a Nur Otan party congress in November.
Madiyar, an 18-year-old student in Nur-Sultan, said she and her friends were unlikely to exercise their first opportunity to vote on Sunday.
We doubt our voice will be heard.
I don't think that there will be significant changes after the vote, the student said.
The World Bank has estimated Kazakhstan's economy shrank 2.5 percent in 2020 as it grappled with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, a first year-on-year recession in two decades.
But suffocating authoritarianism has left few outlets to voice dissatisfaction with the status quo.
NSDP faced off with the ruling party in the last three parliamentary votes, missing out on the legislature each time.
The party's decision not to participate in the upcoming elections came as France-based fugitive banker and long-time regime nemesis Mukhtar Ablyazov called on opposition activists to vote for NSDP, even as he cast doubt over its opposition credentials.
After the NSDP withdrew from the ballot, Ablyazov asked activists to campaign instead for the pro-government Ak Zhol party as a way to decrease Nur Otan's stranglehold on power.
Late last month two opposition activists in the northeastern town of Semey were fined around $100 each by a court for distributing photocopies of Ak Zhol's leaflets.
The court said they had done so without (Ak Zhol's) stated permission, according to verdicts, one of several instances of authorities cracking down on campaigning.
Talgat Mamiraimov, a political commentator based in the country's largest city Almaty, described Sunday's parliamentary vote as a pointless spectacle.
Polls opened at 7:00 am and closed at 8:00 pm (1400 GMT).READ MORE:
UK reports 54,940 new Covid-19 cases, 563 deaths – latest updates
Britain has reported 54,940 new cases of Covid-19, a slight drop from the number on Saturday, and 563 new deaths within 28 days of a positive test, government data has shown.
Deaths had been above 1,000 for four consecutive days before Sunday, although the numbers at the weekend are often lower due to delays in collecting the data.
Jordan's Prime Minister Bisher al Khasawneh and several other members of the government have received the Chinese Sinopharm novel coronavirus vaccine during its testing phase, the health minister said.
Jordan took part in clinical trials for the Chinese vaccine.
The prime minister and several other ministers, including myself, received the vaccine, Nazir Obeidat said at a press conference.
The vaccines that have been bought for the vaccination campaign in the kingdom are all safe and effective, he added, urging Jordanians to come forward for the jabs.
Jordan is set to start its vaccination campaign on Wednesday.
It said on Saturday it had approved the Sinopharm vaccine for emergency use, after giving the Pfizer-BioNTech jab the green light.
Africa passed the milestone of three million confirmed cases Covid-19, including more than 72,000 deaths, according to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
South Africa accounts for more than 30 of the continent’s total with more than 1.2 million reported cases, including 32,824 deaths.
The high proportion of cases in South Africa could be because the country carries out more tests than many other African countries.
South Africa is battling a resurgence of the disease, driven by a variant of the virus that is more contagious and spreading quickly.
Turkey has reported over 9,000 new coronavirus infections.
A total of 9,138 fresh cases, including 1,017 symptomatic patients, were confirmed across the country, according to Health Ministry data.
Turkey’s overall case tally crossed 2.32 million, including 22,807 deaths with 176 new fatalities recorded over the past day.
As many as 8,103 more patient s recovered in the country, taking the total past 2.19 million.
More than 26 million Covid-19 tests have been carried out in Turkey to date, with 162,786 more done over the past 24 hours.
Latest figures show that the number of Covid-19 patients in critical condition has dropped to 2,811.Italy has reported 361 coronavirus-related deaths, down from 483 the day before, the Health Ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 18,627 from 19,978.Some 139,758 swab tests were carried out in the past day, the ministry said, against a previous 172,119.Italy has registered 78,755 Covid-19 deaths since its outbreak came to light on February 21, the second-highest toll in Europe and the sixth-highest in the world.
The country has reported 2.276 million cases to date, the health ministry said.
Patients in hospital with Covid-19 - not including those in intensive care - stood at 23,427 on Sunday, up 167 from a day earlier.
There were 181 admissions to intensive care units, versus with 183 on Saturday.
The current number of intensive care patients rose by 22 to 2,615.Seven people in the southern French port city of Marseille have tested positive for the new, more infectious variant of Covid-19 first found in Britain, local authorities announced on Sunday.
Mayor Benoit Payan said the seven were among 23 people identified as having come into contact with the new coronavirus variant, as well as a further 30 people from one residential building, who were undergoing tests.
Right now, every minute counts in terms of preventing the spread of this English variant, Payan told reporters at a news conference.
In response to the discovery of the new variant in Marseille, the city imposed an earlier evening curfew, moving the start time to 6 pm from 8 pm, until 6 am the following morning.
In Paris the 8 pm to 6 am curfew hours remain unchanged for now, although the government has said it will not rule out stricter measures if the Covid situation worsens in France.
Algerian President Abdelmadjid Tebboune has flown back to Germany for treatment in hospital of complications in his foot resulting from a coronavirus infection, the presidency said.
Tebboune, 75, had returned home two weeks ago from Germany after two months of treatment for Covid-19.The treatment of the complications was not medically urgent and had been due to take place during Tebboune's last stay in Germany, the presidency said in a statement.
At the time, Tebboune decided to postpone the treatment because of some obligations that prompted him to return home on December 29, it said.
The Philippine government has signed a deal to secure the supply of 30 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine Covovax from Serum Institute of India
(SII), the latter's local partner said.
The agreement was signed on Saturday by Carlito Galvez, a former military general in charge of the Philippines' strategy to fight the coronavirus, according to a statement issued by SII's local partner, Faberco Life Sciences Inc.
The Department of Health, which helped distribute the Faberco statement to local media, has yet to issue its own statement.
Galvez could not be immediately reached for comment.
Health Secretary Francisco Duque in a tweet said: We're in the final stages of closing agreements with various manufacturers to vaccinate at least 60-70 of the (population).
He gave no further details.
Thousands of people 80 and older have started receiving invitations to get the coronavirus vaccine in England as Britain ramps up its national vaccination program in a bid to meet its target of inoculating about 15 million people by the middle of February.
More than 600,000 invitations are due to arrive at doorsteps across England this week, asking the elderly to sign up for jabs at new mass vaccination centres near them.
The government has given a first dose of the vaccine to more than 1.2 million people so far.
Men wearing traditional loin clothes and women dressed in white robes have clapped and chanted before going into an ice water bath during a Shinto ritual at a Tokyo shrine to purify the soul and pray for the end of the pandemic.
Only a dozen people took part in the annual event at Teppou-zu Inari Shrine, scaled down this year due to the health crisis, compared to over a hundred in early 2020.
Spectators were not allowed at the event.
Japan has struggled to contain a recent surge in coronavirus infections, with Tokyo reporting 1,494 new cases.
The government declared a limited state of emergency for Tokyo and three neighbouring prefectures on Thursday, covering about 30 of the country's population, in a bid to stem the spread.
The Spanish government will send convoys carrying the Covid-19 vaccine and food supplies to areas cut off by Storm Filomena which brought the heaviest snowfall in decades across central Spain and killed four people.
In the Madrid area, rescuers reached 1,500 people trapped in cars, while police broke up a large snowball fight after authorities appealed for citizens to stay at home for risk of accidents or spreading coronavirus.
Forecasters warned of dangerous conditions in the coming days, with temperatures expected to fall to up to minus 10 Celsius (14 Fahrenheit) next week and the prospect of snow turning to ice and damaged trees falling.
Russia has reported 22,851 new cases including 4,216 in Moscow, pushing the national infection tally to 3,401,954 - the world's fourth highest - since the pandemic began.
Authorities also confirmed 456 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the official death toll to 61,837.
The number of fatalities in Belgium from the new coronavirus has crossed 20,000, health officials said, with more than half the dead from retirement care homes.
The country, with a population of 11.5 million, has recorded 662,694 cases and 20,038 deaths since the pandemic broke out, the Sciensano public health institute said.
Japanese pray for end to pandemic in annual ice bath ritual
A curfew meant to curb a rising tide of Covid-19 cases has taken effect across Canada's Quebec province.
Premier Francois Legault says the measure is needed to prevent gatherings that have fuelled the rampant spread of the virus, The French-speaking Canadian province has a population of more than 8.4 millionThe rules will see most residents face police questions or fines of up to .
$4,728 if they’re out between 8 pm and 5 am local time for the next four weeks.
There are exceptions for essential workers, people walking dogs, and those who have medical reasons to be out, such as a doctor’s appointment.
Jordan has received its first doses of a coronavirus vaccine.
An Emirates flight landed at Queen Alia International airport carrying the batches of a Chinese vaccine.
Wael Hayajneh, the Health Ministry's official in charge of Covid-19, said the vaccines were from state-owned Chinese drugmaker, Sinopharm.
The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany has increased by 16,946 to 1,908,527.
The reported death toll rose by 465 to 40,343, the data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed.
Mainland China has reported 69 new Covid-19 cases on January 9, more than double the 33 reported cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said.
The National Health Commission said in its daily bulletin that 21 of the new cases were imported.
The bulk of locally transmitted cases, 46 out of 48, were in Hebei, the province surrounding Beijing which entered a wartime mode this week as it battles a new cluster of coronavirus infections.
Another 27 asymptomatic cases were also reported, down from 38 a day earlier.
China does not classify these patients, who have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease but are not yet showing any Covid-19 symptoms, as confirmed cases.
Mainland China has now reported an accumulated total of 87,433 confirmed virus cases, with 4,634 deaths.
Australia's New South Wales (NSW) state recorded three new virus cases as a three-week lockdown for about quarter million of people in Sydney's northern beaches suburbs eased.
NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said masks in public places and on transport will remain mandatory for greater Sydney and some public gathering restrictions will continue as the recent outbreak of the pandemic there still poses risks.
It only takes one or two cases to get out of control or undetected line of transmission to get out of control for all of us to be in a situation where we have to consider making things tighter, Berejiklian said at a televised press conference.
NSW and Sydney, Australia's largest city, have been isolated from the rest of Australia by state border closures or 14-day mandatory quarantine rules for interstate arrivals from NSW, following a mid-December outbreak.
Brazil recorded 62,290 additional confirmed  virus cases of the in the past 24 hours, along with 1,171 deaths, the Health Ministry said.
Brazil has registered more than 8 million cases of the virus since the pandemic began 10 months ago, while the official death toll has surpassed 200,000, according to ministry data.
Mexico reported 16,105 new confirmed virus cases and 1,135 more fatalities, according to health ministry data, bringing its total to 1,524,036 infections and 133,204 deaths.
The new daily death toll marks the fifth consecutive day that officials have reported more than 1,000 fatalities due to the highly contagious disease caused by the virus.
The real number of infected people and deaths is likely significantly higher than the official count, the ministry has said, due to little testing.
Britain said it has helped raise $1 billion from global donors towards the drive to help vulnerable countries access coronavirus vaccines, by match-funding contributions.
The UK said, in addition, it has committed $743,5 million to the COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC), after matching with $1,36 every $4 pledged by other donors.
Canada, Japan, and Germany are among the countries to make contributions that it matched, helping the AMC raise more than $1.7 billion in total so far.
The fund will allow for the distribution of one billion vaccine doses to 92 developing countries this year, according to Britain's Foreign Office.
Pope Francis has confirmed in an interview with an Italian broadcaster that he has an appointment to get the anti-Covid vaccine when the Vatican starts its vaccination program next week.
The pope also said everyone should get the vaccine, calling it an “ethical option, because you are playing with your health, life, but also with the lives of others.
”The
Vatican has previously said that it’s “morally acceptable” for faithful to receive Covid-19 vaccines whose research used cell lines from tissue obtained from abortions.
Vatican City has had at least 27 confirmed virus cases.
Israel's health ministry said four people had tested positive for the novel coronavirus strain first detected in South Africa, with the new British variant already recorded.
The cases were discovered after testing of travellers arriving from South Africa.
The two new strains are more infectious than previous variants of the virus.
Amid surging cases, Israel last month reimposed a national lockdown.
On Friday, it tightened restrictions further as the daily caseload remained high.
Cuba's top epidemiologist said irresponsible partying over year-end, often with relatives from abroad, fuelled a surge in virus infections and he warned of a crackdown to prevent the spread of the disease.
Authorities in the capital at the same time announced new containment measures including suspension of interprovincial transport, cultural activities, and the use of public spaces such as the famous Malecon boulevard during night hours.
While Cuba's Communist authorities have managed to contain the country's outbreak far better than most other Latin American governments, infections have more than doubled since they eased lockdown restrictions, and reopened borders in November.
Several rangers killed in DRC jungle, home to endangered gorillas
At least six rangers in the Democratic Republic of Congo's Virunga National Park, famous for its mountain gorillas, have been killed in an attack officials blamed on a militia group.
Provincial lawmaker Elie Nzaghani confirmed the tally from Nyamitwitwi in Rutshuru area of eastern North Kivu province.
We confirm that a group of armed men attacked our positions in the region of Nyamitwitwi, a central sector of the park in the territory of Rutshuru in North Kivu province, the park's spokesman Olivier Mukisya told AFP by email.
The UNESCO World Heritage site is caught up in persistent unrest in the province, where a plethora of armed groups are battling for control of rich mineral deposits.
Mukisya said six rangers were killed and another was seriously injured in the attack around 9:30 am.
Virunga park, created in 1925, covers some 7,800 square kilometres and is home to about a quarter of the world's population of critically endangered mountain gorillas.
Nearly 700 armed rangers work in Virunga where sources say at least 200 have paid with their lives in attacks going back more than a decade.
The gorillas are poaching targets and their habitat is being destroyed by deforestation in part to supply charcoal.
Human rights groups say armed groups are controlling the industry to support a rebellion.
Various rival armed groups have repeatedly clashed over land and resources and stoked tensions in North Kivu, which like the rest of eastern DRC has been riven by decades of conflict.
Mai-Mai militia groups have been accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years.
Mai-Mai (the word comes from the Swahili for water) sprinkle themselves with water before going into combat in the belief it affords them protection.
Turkish WhatsApp users quit app as demand spikes for other options
Turkish users are taking a quick flight from messaging app WhatsApp to other alternatives, new data suggests, even as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's media office and Defence Ministry have also left WhatsApp over new data sharing policy that has ignited privacy concerns.
The presidency and Defence Ministry will move its WhatsApp groups to  on January 11, Bloomberg reported on Sunday.
After the popular messaging app WhatsApp forced many users to agree to new privacy rules, users are seeking alternatives for their smartphones.
With the changes, Telegram messenger has become the most downloaded messaging app in Apple's App Store in Turkey, Anadolu Agency has learned.
In second place is Signal, an app recommended by Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla, followed by WhatsApp itself, and BiP, an app by Turkish mobile network giant Turkcell.
For Android users, Telegram was first in the Play Store, followed by WhatsApp and BiP.BiP gained over 1.12 million users in just 24 hours, boasting over 53 million users worldwide, according to data shared by Turkcell.
Turkish users took to social media to denounce Whatsapp's new data policy and were trending WatsAPPsiliyoruz (We're deleting Whatsapp).
Turkish drone maker Baykar Chief Executive Haluk Bayraktar who has a huge fan base on Twitter said he was leaving Whatsapp because the company was imposing on users its controversial privacy agreement on personal data.
Bayraktar suggested users install BiP app instead.
Developed by Turkish engineers, it has a user-friendly interface.
will always be installed on my phone, he said.
Kullanıcı dostu bir uygulama olmayan '
ı
kişisel verilere
yönelik gizlilik
antlaşmasını ya kabul et ya da uygulamayı kullanamazsın dayatmasından dolayı terk ediyorum.
Last week, WhatsApp sent its updated privacy policy to its users.
The changes include sharing personal data, such as account information, messages, and location information with Facebook companies.
It said the app could not be used unless the terms are not accepted.
New installs of WhatsApp fell 11 percent in the first seven days of 2021 compared with the prior week, but that still amounted to an estimated 10.5 million downloads globally, according to data analytics firm Sensor Tower.
Following a backlash, WhatsApp announced that users in the 'Europe region will not be affected by the update, as their data would not be shared with Facebook companies.
But according to the app's website, the region in question only includes EU countries, effectively forcing users in Turkey to approve the conditions to continue using the app.
Some have decried the app's double standard, saying WhatsApp fears penalties from EU countries under data security rules.
Facebook aims to monetise WhatsApp by allowing businesses to contact their clients via the platform, even sell them products directly using the service as they already do in India.
Swiss hotels, restaurants risk 'bankruptcy' as third wave of layoffs loom
Nearly half of Switzerland's restaurants and hotels risk bankruptcy within months without financial support to weather devastating Covid-19 measures, the sector's employer group has warned.
The Swiss government is expected this week to extend the closure of bars, restaurants, and leisure facilities across the country until the end of February to control stubbornly high coronavirus cases and death numbers.
But industry federation GastroSuisse warned in a statement that if done without providing significant financial support, around half of businesses in the hospitality sector could go belly-up by the end of March.
The group polled around 4,000 restaurant and hotel owners and determined that 98 percent of them already are in urgent need of financial support.
The very existence of many of them is threatened, GastroSuisse president Casimir Platzer said in the statement.
While restaurants and other businesses quickly received financial support when Switzerland went into partial lockdown during the initial wave of infections, GastroSuisse has complained that support during subsequent sporadic closures has lagged.
Before the crisis, more than 80 percent of Swiss restaurants and hotels were in a good or very good position of liquidity, the study showed.
But that situation quickly deteriorated.
In October, as the second wave of infections picked up steam, the organisation cautioned that 100,000 jobs were at risk.
And during the final two months of 2020, nearly 60 percent of restaurant and hotel establishments were forced to conduct layoffs for a second time, it said.
Without government intervention, the third wave of layoffs is looming, Platzer warned.
The latest closures were to be lifted on January 22, but the government said last week it wanted to extend the deadline for a further five weeks.
GastroSuisse said the final announcement, due on Wednesday, needed to be accompanied by immediate and uncomplicated financial support to the sector to avoid disaster.
USAM, a union that represents small and medium-sized businesses in Switzerland, called on Sunday for the government not to prolong or tighten measures, warning it was an existential question for many of its members.
Switzerland, a country of 8.6 million people, is currently registering around 4, 000 Covid-19 cases a day and had by Friday seen nearly 476,000 cases and 7,545 deaths since the start of the pandemic.
Qataris stream into Saudi Arabia on second day of border reopening
Qataris have celebrated crossing their border with Saudi Arabia, calling the kingdom our second country, as Doha readied its strict coronavirus measures for Saudis to enter following a Gulf diplomatic thaw.
Drivers on Sunday arrived at the Salwa border crossing in Saudi Arabia, 500 kilometres east of the capital Riyadh, from the Qatari land crossing at Abu Samrah for the second day following its reopening.
Coming from Qatar is like coming to our second country, where there's no difference between them and us in their traditions, said Mohammed al Marri, a Qatari who had travelled into Saudi Arabia.
Since the re-opening of the border, 167 Qatari cars had entered Saudi Arabia, while 35 Qatari vehicles had crossed back into Qatar, said Ali Lablabi, general manager of Salwa's customs department.
This happiness – no one can describe it, said Ghaith al Marri, a Qatari.
There are people who started crying when the border reopened, he said.
Saudi Arabia shut its side of Qatar's only land border in June 2017 as part of a package of sanctions it said was a response to Doha's alleged backing of militant groups and closeness to Iran.
Qatar always denied the charges.
Saudi Arabia, along with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt, all of which had also imposed embargoes on travel and trade, agreed to lift the restrictions at a Gulf Cooperation Council summit in the kingdom on Tuesday.
Qatar Airways and Saudi Airlines announced on Saturday on Twitter that they would begin resuming flights between their countries from Monday.
Qatar has announced strict coronavirus control measures for those arriving from Saudi Arabia.
Doha will require travellers to present a negative coronavirus test, undergo another test at the frontier and quarantine in a government-approved hotel for one week.
Just one hour from the Salwa border crossing
lies
Al-Ahsa, a desert oasis where Qatari shoppers once kept the local economy humming, crossing over to buy affordable supplies including dates and milk.
The deep-pocketed residents of gas-rich Qatar – one of the world's wealthiest countries per capita – also pumped millions of riyals into Saudi hotels, date plantations and other real estates.
But the money dried up when the embargo shut the Qataris out, unleashing economic pain and dividing extended families on both sides, an unintended consequence of a policy meant to hurt Doha's government.
ICC probes 'racist abuse' of Indian cricket players in Australia
Cricket chiefs have launched an investigation into allegations of racist abuse of the India team from sections of the crowd in the third test match after six people were ejected and play halted for nearly 10 minutes in Australia's Sydney ground.
The International Cricket Council (ICC) probe followed Mohammed Siraj and Jasprit Bumrah apparently being targeted while they fielded by the boundary ropes of the Sydney Cricket Ground late on Saturday.
In a second incident, the play was halted just before the tea break on Sunday when Siraj ran from the fine leg boundary towards the umpires, pointing into the crowd.
It was not immediately clear what had been said, but six men were seen being removed from their seats and Cricket Australia (CA)
said a number of spectators had been interviewed by police before they were thrown out.
Cricket Australia has reaffirmed its zero-tolerance policy towards discriminatory behaviour in all forms following the alleged racial abuse of members of the Indian cricket squad by a section of the crowd at the SCG yesterday.
Full statement 👇
While we await the outcome of the investigation by NSW Police, CA has launched its own inquiry into the matter, said CA's head of integrity and security Sean Carroll, calling the episode regrettable.
However, two spectators near the incident told the Sydney Morning Herald nothing racist was said.
Cricket Australia earlier issued an apology to India and said anyone found guilty of abuse would face consequences, including bans, other sanctions, and referral to police.
Cricket Australia condemns in the strongest terms possible all discriminatory behaviour, said Carroll.
If you engage in racist abuse, you are not welcome in Australian cricket.
CA is awaiting the outcome of the International Cricket Council's investigation into the matter reported at the SCG on Saturday, he added.
As series hosts, we unreservedly apologise to our friends in the Indian cricket team and assure them we will prosecute the matter to its fullest extent.
The  newspaper said that the fans on Saturday had been drunk.
Bumrah and Siraj were called monkeys, wanker and mother by the people almost throughout the time they were fielding, it claimed.
We don't know what was said, but to think we have to stop play for what could be racist comments towards Team India who are here as our guests, I can't deal.
No person deserves this treatment anywhere, at any time.
Sickening.
Australian coach Justin Langer said such antics had no place in sport.
It's upsetting and it's disappointing, he said.
Anybody who knows me, knows I've said for years one of my greatest pet hates in life is that people think they can come to a sporting event, pay their money, and think they can abuse or say whatever they like.
I've hated it as a player, I hate it as a coach.
We've seen it in different parts of the world
and I'm really sad to see it happen in Australia.
Veteran spinner Ravi Ashwin said it was not the first time there had been issues for India in Sydney.
This is my fourth tour to Australia and Sydney, especially, we have had a few experiences here in the past, he said, describing them as nasty.
But this is the time where they have gone one step ahead and used racial abuses.
It's definitely not acceptable in this day and age...
we must make sure it doesn't happen again.
Only 10,000 fans – a quarter of the capacity – have been allowed into the Sydney Cricket Ground each day due to coronavirus concerns, making their chants and shouts more clearly heard.
Sadyr Japarov wins landslide victory in Kyrgyzstan's presidential vote
Kyrgyzstan's politician Sadyr Japarov has won a landslide victory in Kyrgyzstan's snap presidential election, which was triggered by the collapse of the previous government.
Japarov was leading with nearly 80 percent of the ballot in a vote following a political crisis in the Central Asian country, preliminary results cited by Central Election Commission showed, meaning there will be no run-off.
The results of a referendum held in parallel on Sunday also showed Kyrgyz strongly preferring presidential rule, which would grant Japarov sweeping powers when a new constitution is passed, most probably later this year.
More than 80 of voters supported a proposal to reform the constitution to give the president greater powers at parliament's expense, the commission said.
The snap vote was triggered by the collapse of the previous government in the Central Asian nation closely allied with Russia.
Voters began trickling into polling stations in frosty conditions at 8:00 am (0200 GMT).
Polling stations closed at 8:00 pm (1400 GMT).Violent protests which erupted last October sprung Japarov, 52, from a prison cell to the prime minister's chair and culminated in him assuming the interim presidency, although he later gave it up to run for a full-time role.
Japarov, who had been sentenced to a lengthy prison term for kidnapping a provincial governor as part of a protest, had his verdict quashed amid the October unrest and has outspent his 16 competitors by a wide margin during the campaign.
Despite his nationalist stance - Japarov's first act as prime minister was to add ethnicity information to national ID cards - he has repeatedly pledged to maintain a close relationship with former Soviet overlord Moscow.
Russia is our strategic partner, Japarov said after casting his ballot in a suburb of capital Bishkek.
Russia operates a military airbase in the mountainous nation and is also the main destination for hundreds of thousands of Kyrgyz migrant labourers.
Neighbouring China is another key trade partner and investor in the impoverished and predominantly Muslim nation which, in addition to electing a president, votes on whether to give greater presidential powers at parliament's expense.
Japarov's prison sentence stems from his campaign in the early 2010s to nationalise the giant Kumtor gold mine operated by Canada's Centerra Gold.
After coming to power last year, however, he said that was no longer a goal
and he would only seek to ensure profits from the mine are split fairly.
Japarov's campaign which combined references to traditional symbols and values with promises such as doubling healthcare spending appears to have struck a chord with voters across the country, especially in rural areas.
According to local pollsters, he enjoys a comfortable lead over competitors and could potentially win more than 50 percent of the vote, thus avoiding a runoff.
At the polling station, Japarov declined to speculate about the outcome of the vote but urged all groups to accept it in order to preserve stability.
Kyrgyzstan has a history of political volatility.
Before toppling the government of President Sooronbai Jeenbekov last October, similar violent protests deposed presidents in 2010 and 2005.
Another former head of state, Almazbek Atambayev, is under arrest on corruption charges.
I voted against everyone because it makes no difference for ordinary people who is in charge, everyone lies to us, said Bakyt, a 52-year-old power engineer who only gave his first name.
Deadly roadside bomb explosion hits Afghan capital
At least three people were killed in a roadside bomb blast in Afghanistan's capital Kabul.
Tariq Arian, spokesman for the interior minister, said a spokesman for the ministry's public protection forces, a security force, was one of the three killed in the attack.
One other person was wounded he said.
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack which took place as government negotiators were in Qatar to resume peace talks with the Taliban.
The Daesh terror group has claimed responsibility for multiple attacks in the capital in recent months, including on educational institutions that killed 50 people, most of them students.
The outfit has also claimed responsibility for rocket attacks in December targeting the major US base in Afghanistan.
There were no casualties.
Taliban militants have meanwhile continued their insurgency against government forces while keeping their promise not to attack US and NATO troops.
Sunday's attack comes as Afghan negotiators are to resume talks with the Taliban aimed at finding an end to decades of relentless conflict.
Frustration and fear have grown over a spike in violence that has combatants on both sides blaming the other.
The stop-and-go talks between the Taliban and the government come amid growing doubt over a US-Taliban peace deal brokered by the administration of outgoing President Donald Trump.
An accelerated withdrawal of US troops ordered by Trump means just 2,500 American soldiers will still be in Afghanistan when President-elect Joe Biden takes office this month.
Biden has advocated for keeping a small intelligence-based presence in Afghanistan, but Taliban leaders have flatly rejected any foreign troops.
READ MORE:
Power partially restored in Pakistan after nationwide blackout
Power was gradually being restored to major cities across Pakistan after it was hit by a massive electricity blackout.
The electricity distribution system in the nation of more than 210 million people is a complex and delicate web, and a problem in one section of the grid can lead to cascading breakdowns countrywide.
The latest blackout was caused by an engineering fault in southern Pakistan at 1841 GMT(11:41 pm local time on Saturday), which tripped the system and caused power plants to shut down, power minister Omar Ayub Khan told a press conference in Islamabad.
Our experts are trying to determine the exact location of the fault.
Khan said that will take another few hours as the area is still covered in dense fog, but that power had been partially restored in most areas of Punjab, the most populous province, as well as the economic hub Karachi in the south.
We hope to bring the system back to its full capacity by this evening, but it will take some time for nuclear and thermal power plants to get operational, Khan tweeted.
READ MORE: People were cracking jokes and exchanging memes on Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, mostly ridiculing Prime Minister Imran Khan's government and its performance after the breakdown.
No one can beat Pakistanis on this!!!😂
😂
Yess!!!
We PAKISTANIS 🇵🇰❤️
Power breakdown in Pakistan is blackmailing Imran Khan, tweeted Musarrat Ahmedzeb in reference to the premier's recent statement accusing Shia protesters of blackmailing him after killing of 10 miners.
What a start for the new year...
let us seek Allah the Almighty's mercy, read another tweet, while a message on WhatsApp said: new Pakistan sleeps in a night mode.
Finally Imran khan introduces Night mode in Naya Pakistan😂
😂
✌️
Conclusion of today's  in Pakistan
🤦 🇱🇷 :
It's national electricity blackout 🇵🇰 : it's martial law 🇵🇰 :
Balochistan ma hamla ho gya Hy 🇵🇰 : Air force should stay red alert
(  ) 🇵🇰 : Atom bomb shift ho rhy Hain 🇵🇰 :
Ma NRO
NHI DU GA 😂
😂
🤦🤣🤣
There were no immediate reports of disruption at hospitals, which often rely on back-up generators.
Netblocks, which monitors internet outages, said web connectivity in the country collapsed as a result of the blackout.
Connectivity was at 52 percent of ordinary levels, it said in a tweet.
Update:
Real-time telemetry show few signs of recovery as 's power grid failure continues into its 6th hour; national internet connectivity is now down to 52 of ordinary levels with growing impact observed on  🔌📉 📰
This was Pakistan's second major power breakdown in less than three years.
In May 2018, power was partially disrupted for more than nine hours.
In 2015, an apparent rebel attack on a key power line plunged around 80 percent of Pakistan into darkness.
That blackout, one of the worst in Pakistan's history, caused electricity to be cut in major cities nationwide, including Islamabad, and even affected one of the country's international airports.
READ MORE:
TV series to show Asian Muslims' role in Turkish war of independence
A Turkish production company is set to produce a new historical television series after the superhit series, Resurrection: Ertugrul, attracted a large global viewership.
Turki
Lala, a series proposed by Turkey and Pakistan, will highlight the role of Muslims in the sub-continent during the Balkan Wars.
We have started to write Turki Lala series scenario.
First, we will prepare the script and then will begin shooting, Kemal Tekden of Tekden Film said.
Tekden and his team arrived Thursday in Pakistan on a five-day visit and were warmly welcomed by officials and Pakistanis.
The team met Prime Minister Imran Khan and discussed Turki Lala.
Actors from Pakistan and Turkey will work on this series which will largely shoot in Turkey, said Tekden.1-Tekden Film yapımcığında gerçekleşen Diriliş ERTUĞRUL ve Yunus Emre dizilerinin rüzgarında; davet edildiğimiz Pakistan'da ziyaret ettiğimiz Başbakan İmran Han bu
dizilerden dolayı
ekibimizi tebrik ederek takdirlerini ifade ettiler.
READ MORE:
Lala, in the Pashto language, refers to elder brother, and the series will highlight the role of Muslims from the sub-continent who went to Turkey in 1920 and fought imperialist forces.
Most Muslims who helped Turkey, travelled from present-day Pakistan under the Khilafat Movement flag, a campaign to support the Ottoman Empire in the early 20th century.
During the meeting with Khan, the Kashmir Committee Chairman Shehryar Afridi briefed him on the series and said Turk Lala played an important role in the Khilafat Movement.
He was referring Abdur Rehman Peshawari, who held the distinction of becoming one of the first reporters for Anadolu Agency when it was founded in the early 1920s.
Born in 1886 in Peshawar, the capital of Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, to a wealthy Samdani family, Peshawari abandoned his studies to join the people's mission to help Turkey during WWI.This series is very important where we will highlight the role of Muslims from sub-continent which they had played during Turkey's war of independence, Tekden said, adding that the series would strengthen brotherhood between Turks and Pakistanis.
He thanked Khan for airing Ertughrul and Yunus Emre on Pakistani state-run television and according to Tekden, Khan said he is waiting for more historical serials that could educate the younger generation about our history.
Celal Al, who portrays Abdur Rehman Ghazi in Ertugrul, thanked Khan and Pakistanis for the warmly welcome.
Celal was part of the Tekden team who met Khan when the prime minister praised their work for producing the Ertugrul series.
Imran Khan is a very kind and polite person and also a very close friend of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Celal said.
He said despite the 5,000-kilometer (3,100-mile) distance between Turkey and Pakistan, he feels like himself in his own country.
I am feeling that I am in Ankara, Bursa or Istanbul.
Really, I love this country [Pakistan], he added People warmly welcomed us here
and I felt Pakistani people are looking toward Turkey with hope, which I realized here that Turkey is bigger than itself, said Celal.
He said television series and movies could play an important role in strengthening our brotherhood and educate our younger generation.
People do not look at us as actors.
We are hope for them as Ertugrul Ghazi give them a new hope, he said, and added that Turkey and Pakistan are two brotherly countries which have long historical and brotherly relations.
He also spoke on atrocities carried out against Muslims in India, Kashmir, Myanmar, East Turkistan, Syria, Iraq and Palestine.
Our hearts are together with these Muslims who are under oppression and persecution,” he said.

